"0||Thousands still without water in aftermath of snow chaosThousands of homes across the UK and Ireland are without running water after thawing temperatures caused pipes to burst and leak. Thames Water has faced criticism for resorting to handing out bottled water to customers after up to 20,000 properties in London and the Thames valley had their supplies cut off. The company apologised and said the number of homes without water was now down to 12,000 \u2013 and falling \u2013 as engineers battled to fix widespread disruption to the water supply. Anglian Water, Severn Trent, Southern Water, Welsh Water, Wessex Water, Yorkshire Water, South West Water, Scottish Water and United Utilities all said they had received reports of customers experiencing problem with their pipelines. Meanwhile, a number of schools said they would be forced to close on Monday because they did not have running water. Thames Water customers have expressed frustration on social media and criticised the company for not providing more convenient access to water. The company has been inundated with messages from customers and many took to Twitter to say their complaints had not been answered. Others offered to help vulnerable neighbours. Problems began late on Saturday night, though the company\u2019s network had been experiencing issues with freezing pipes since Thursday. Addresses in SW16, SW17 and SW18; NW2, NW3, NW5 and NW11; N2, N6, N10 and N19 were the worst affected, according to a company spokesperson. Thames Water has not said when households can expect water supplies to return, but said engineers were working around the clock to resolve the problems. It said: \u201cWe\u2019ve seen an increase in leaks and bursts on our network, which we are urgently dealing with as fast as we possibly can. But the sudden and widespread surge in demand, coinciding with the rise in temperatures, means we also need to urge all our customers to check their own pipes for bursts and call a plumber if necessary. \u201cWe are getting as much extra water into our network as we can and sincerely apologise to all our customers who are currently without water or who have low pressure. \u201cOur teams are working hard to prioritise services for vulnerable customers and stand up locations from which our customers can collect bottled water.\u201d The company is handing out water at two locations and they will remain in place overnight: Hampstead No 1 Pond car park, East Heath Road, NW3 2RJ and Homebase, 100 Woodgate Drive, Streatham Vale, SW16 5YP. Thames Valley issued a joint statement with South East Water, Southern Water and Affinity Water, which urged customers to use as little water as possible \u201cwhile things get back to normal\u201d."
"1||Who will win? Our film critic Peter Bradshaw's Oscars predictionsThe grandees of Hollywood are approaching this year\u2019s Oscars in a pretty subdued and wary mood, the most subdued since the days of 9/11 and the Iraq war. Because this is the Former Court of King Harvey, the first ceremony since Weinstein\u2019s downfall, and that of many others. This is the arena in which Harvey Weinstein could preen himself; this is part of how he dazzled and intimidated his victims. It is the award-ceremony ecosystem that allowed Weinstein-style predators to flourish. There are probably plenty of undiscovered Hollywood abusers who are keeping their heads down, waiting for this problem to go away \u2013 rather like tense occupants of a submarine in a war movie, maintaining nerve-shreddingly tense silence as an enemy warship passes overhead. This ceremony could prove to be their undoing. At the Golden Globes, James Franco was at one moment the hero of the hour, winning for The Disaster Artist, and then he was denounced by a victim watching on TV, infuriated that Franco wore a Time\u2019s Up ribbon. Within what seemed like microseconds, Franco\u2019s image was airbrushed from Vanity Fair\u2019s Hollywood cover photo. It happens that quickly. Certain men will be wondering: do I risk looking unwoke by not wearing the #TimesUp ribbon? Or risk catastrophe by wearing it? We could see some weird, unexplained no-shows at this year\u2019s event. There is also the question of male victims. Brendan Fraser has won much praise for giving an interview about his depression and career spiral, which stemmed from being abused and groped at the 2003 Golden Globes by a senior official from the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. Fraser made a complaint at the time, for which he received a boilerplate non-apology. The strange truth is that if Fraser had remained silent and then revealed this event right now, he could probably have inflicted a devastating blow. So there will be defiance at the Oscars this year, and qualified celebration that women are finding more recognition. Frances McDormand is a widely tipped best actress nominee for Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, for her role as the mother looking for revenge. It makes sense to reward McDormand in the Time\u2019s Up era, and this will almost certainly happen. Then are the films themselves: many of the frontrunners seem to have acquired their own Achilles heels, objections of varying levels of seriousness that their producers have had to ride out. Three Billboards? The perceived racism of allowing redemption for the bigoted character. Darkest Hour? Winston\u2019s fictitious tube journey with forelock-tugging subjects from all over the Empire. The Shape of Water? Guillermo del Toro\u2019s unacknowledged debts to Jean-Pierre Jeunet. My own worry is that this year\u2019s Oscars are going to reward two movies \u2013 The Shape of Water and Three Billboards \u2013 which although very good, have been marginally overpraised. (I accept Martin McDonagh\u2019s good faith on the issue of whether or not his racist character has been soft-pedalled.) It would be a shame if these movies get a landslide over better films like Get Out, Phantom Thread, Call Me By Your Name and The Florida Project. Darkest Hour is very entertaining, and Gary Oldman\u2019s impersonation of Churchill is exhilarating. But a victory for him will happen at the expense of subtler performances. Well, we shall see. My predictions are below. Best picture Will win: The Shape of Water Should win: Get Out Shoulda been a contender: Coco Best director Will win: Guillermo del Toro for The Shape of Water Should win: Paul Thomas Anderson for Phantom Thread Shoulda been a contender: Luca Guadagnino for Call Me By Your Name Best actor Will win: Gary Oldman for Darkest Hour Should win: Daniel Day-Lewis for Phantom Thread Shoulda been a contender: Makis Papadimitrou for Suntan Best actress Will win: Frances McDormand for Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri Should win: Saoirse Ronan for Lady Bird Shoulda been a contender: Kristen Stewart for Personal Shopper Best supporting actor Will win: Sam Rockwell for Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri Should win: Willem Dafoe for The Florida Project Shoulda been a contender: Michael Stuhlbarg for Call Me By Your Name Best supporting actress Will win: Allison Janney for I, Tonya Should win: Laurie Metcalf for Lady Bird Shoulda been a contender: Catherine Keener for Get Out Best animated feature Will win: Coco Should win: Coco Shoulda been a contender: Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie Best adapted screenplay Will win: James Ivory for Call Me By Your Name Should win: James Ivory for Call Me By Your Name Shoulda been a contender: Gaby Chiappe for Their Finest Best original screenplay Will win: Guillermo del Toro and Vanessa Taylor for The Shape of Water Should win: Greta Gerwig for Lady Bird Shoulda been a contender: Noah Baumbach for The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected) Best cinematography Will win: Roger Deakins for Blade Runner 2049 Should win: Roger Deakins for Blade Runner 2049 Shoulda been a contender: M David Mullen for The Love Witch Best documentary Will win: Icarus Should win: Abacus: Small Enough to Jail Shoulda been a contender: City of Ghosts Best foreign language film Will win: On Body and Soul Should win: Loveless Shoulda been a contender: The Handmaiden"
"2||Leader Davide Astori is fondly remembered as Serie A falls quietSerie A stopped for Davide Astori on Sunday. This was supposed to be the biggest weekend of the season, the biggest for many seasons, perhaps, all of the top eight sides pairing off against one another with everything from the Scudetto to Champions League places and Milan derby bragging rights up for grabs. Then a young man died and none of it really seemed to matter. Astori was not a household name outside Italy. He played most of his career away from the very biggest clubs. Although he graduated from the Milan academy, the first six of his 10 seasons in Serie A were spent with Cagliari. The last three were with Fiorentina. He had only one season of Champions League football, at Roma, in 2014-15, and played in only two games. For a sense of his impact on people within the sport, though, one need only have listened to a sampling of the tributes that came flooding in on Sunday from figures as diverse as Antonio Conte, Sergio Ramos and David Beckham. Gigi Buffon called Astori \u201cthe greatest expression of an old world, one in which masters were made of values like altruism, elegance, education and respect\u201d. Others remembered him for his optimism \u2013 that wide grin as fixed on his face as the bushy moustache right above it. \u201cHow many times did we laugh together,\u201d wrote Leonardo Bonucci. \u201cHow many conversations did we have sitting beside one another at [the Italian national team\u2019s training base in] Coverciano, or out on the pitch \u2026 You with that smile that never ended and which let us know how much good you had inside you.\u201d Former colleagues spoke of his leadership and his willingness to give up his time to help others. Astori had been named as Fiorentina captain at the start of this year and in perhaps his last major interview \u2013 published by Gazzetta dello Sport last month \u2013 he had scolded journalists for putting too much pressure on a young talent like Federico Chiesa. His own footballing qualities deserve to be recognised. Things might not have worked out for him at Roma \u2013 where injuries played a part \u2013 yet this is someone who played 14 times for Italy, despite reaching his peak in an era when the BBC of Bonucci, Andrea Barzagli and Giorgio Chiellini held a near monopoly on the starting roles. It is worth noting, furthermore, that his international caps were spread across seven years and three managers. From Cesare Prandelli through Conte and Giampiero Ventura, Italy\u2019s managers invariably wanted him present in their squads even when there was no room in the starting XI. Few doubted that he would have earned more under the next manager, whoever that may be. Besides, not every player gets to start 289 Serie A games. And you had better believe Astori, who is survived by his partner, Francesca Fioretti, and a two-year-old daughter, was counting. He was a man with a head for numbers. If you asked him about a given season in his career, the chances were that he would be able to tell you not only how many games he had played but precisely how they were divided across different competitions. \u201cStatistics are my passion,\u201d he told an interviewer from the newspaper La Nazione last year. \u201cI\u2019m a conservative sort.\u201d Italian football can be a conservative culture, at times, one where big decisions often get bogged down in debate and polemic dispute. No voices were raised in protest when the decision was made to cancel every Serie A game on Sunday. But plenty of tears were shed."
"2||Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain hits out at Thierry Henry\u2019s \u2018stupid\u2019 commentsAlex Oxlade-Chamberlain said he was stung by criticism from Thierry Henry and Gary Neville on leaving Arsenal but believes he has made the pair look \u201ca bit stupid\u201d with his impressive Liverpool form. The summer signing was instrumental in breaking a resilient Newcastle on Saturday, as he had been in the win against West Ham United the previous week, with a key assist for Mohamed Salah\u2019s 32nd goal of the season and a man-of-the-match display on the right of midfield. The 24-year-old has played an important role in Liverpool\u2019s pursuit of Champions League qualification next term, and their chase for the trophy this season, having had to wait patiently for regular opportunities under J\u00fcrgen Klopp. His arrival at Anfield was accompanied by slights from the two TV pundits, who questioned the wisdom of Liverpool\u2019s decision to pay up to \u00a340m for the England player. Neville, who worked with Oxlade-Chamberlain at international level, said he would \u201csnap your hand off\u201d for what he described as a \u201cbrilliant deal\u201d for Arsenal. Henry, who played with the midfielder during a loan spell at Arsenal, claimed: \u201cI have been watching him for a very long time and I still don\u2019t know what he\u2019s good at.\u201d Oxlade-Chamberlain admits he was \u201cvery aware of those comments\u201d and would accept criticism of his end product but not sweeping generalisations from two former professionals with whom he had worked. \u201cThose comments are probably a bit stupid,\u201d the Liverpool midfielder said. \u201cWhen you have watched someone long enough you know what they can do. If it was aimed more at the end product side of things and doing those things that lead to scoring a goal or setting up a goal then fair enough, I will take those comments on the chin. Saying you don\u2019t know what I do, when you have worked with me, I think is a bit stupid. If they are referencing more end product then that is fair enough, I hold my hands up. That is something that I have been working on and still need to work on.\u201d Oxlade-Chamberlain has not contacted Henry or Neville over their criticism. \u201cI don\u2019t need to. If people want to say those things you remember them, you don\u2019t forget them, but I am not here to make enemies. If that is what they think, fair enough.\u201d He insists the only opinions that matter are his own and Klopp\u2019s. \u201cIt is not nice to hear it from your peers or people you have worked with and I have worked with them both in different capacities. They can have their opinions. It cannot shake me. The important thing is that when I came here I had a manager who had faith in me and he felt something different to that, and I had faith in myself. That is why I made the step. \u201cEveryone says you have to be your own biggest fan and believe in yourself. I am old enough and wise enough and I have been around long enough to know that things will be said, and not nice things a lot of the time. And when you are doing well, nice things will be said. That is all part and parcel of it. But it is never nice to hear it from people you have worked with.\u201d Sadio Man\u00e9 sealed a 2-0 victory with Liverpool\u2019s 200th Premier League goal under Klopp, a tally achieved in 97 games, and Oxlade-Chamberlain acknowledges he has been inspired by Salah. He said: \u201cThere is more in me, I know I have to keep pushing on. I can take so much from someone like Mo Salah. Just look at him this season. It has been relentless and when someone can go from \u2013 obviously he is a great player \u2013 but to be competing with Harry Kane and Sergio Ag\u00fcero for top goalscorer is something you have to learn from. \u201cPeople probably wouldn\u2019t have expected that from him at the start of the season. To put himself in that position is down to the mentality he has to work hard and get the best out of himself. Every season there is always an example of people like that. You can take inspiration and I have got to keep pushing myself. I have nine games left in the league and we have the Champions League and I want to give the best of myself in those games and do as much as I can to help this team finish as high as we can.\u201d"
"1||Oscars 2018 predictions, timetable and all you need to knowHello, good evening and welcome to the 90th Academy Awards [assumes David Frost voice], which are due to get under way in a few hours time in Los Angeles. As we drum our fingers and twiddle our thumbs, this is a good time to reflect on what surely is a landmark Oscars after a year of turbulence and sea change in Hollywood: the downfall of Harvey Weinstein, the emergence of Times Up and red-carpet blackouts, and the thrilling rise of diversity at the multiplex. The consensus is that this year\u2019s best picture Oscar has boiled down to a two-horse race, between The Shape of Water and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri \u2013 the former edging ahead despite the latter winning the equivalent award at the Baftas and coming out on top at the Globes. The other headline awards look like they\u2019ll be dead certs: the money is on Gary Oldman for Darkest Hour, Frances McDormand for Three Billboards, and Sam Rockwell and Alison Janney for the supporting actor nods. Shape heads the nominations count with 13, but if the Baftas are anything to go by no one film will sweep the board. Here\u2019s the full list to peruse. As usual, your hardworking Guardian team will be on the case, covering the red carpet, the ceremony and the aftermath. Here are a few pointers as to what to look out for, some final predictions and a timetable. Timetable After last year\u2019s hopelessness, the whole thing has been brought forward half an hour. We\u2019ll be launching our live blog at 2:30pm PT, 5:30pm ET, 10.30pm GMT and 9.30am (Monday) AEDT, for live coverage from the red carpet, rolling news, galleries, analysis and comment, taking in the ceremony \u2013 which starts at 5pm PT, 8pm ET, 1am (Monday) GMT and 12noon (Monday) AEDT \u2013 and the aftermath. Final predictions Guardian writers have been busily analysing the chances of each of the best picture nominees, while Stuart Heritage, has cast a beady eye over the annual For Your Consideration adverts. The Guardian\u2019s chief film critic Peter Bradshaw also has had his say. And here\u2019s our final best guess on how it will go down. Best picture The Shape of Water Best director Guillermo del Toro, The Shape of Water Best actor Gary Oldman, Darkest Hour Best actress Frances McDormand, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri Best supporting actor Sam Rockwell, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri Best supporting actress Allison Janney, I, Tonya Best original screenplay Get Out Best adapted screenplay Call Me By Your Name Best documentary Faces Places Best original song This Is Me, The Greatest Showman Best animated feature Coco Best foreign language film A Fantastic Woman What you need to know \u2022 The Harvey Weinstein scandal, still rolling on, casts its shadow over these Oscars: not the least because more than anywhere, this was his fiefdom. This year he won\u2019t be in attendance and, as our writer Hadley Freeman points out, the Oscars have a chance to change direction. \u2022 Meanwhile, last year\u2019s almighty fiasco seems like small beer in comparison, but the powers that be are still taking no chances: they have banned backstage tweeting by the officials handing over the winners\u2019 envelopes. \u2022 Efforts to make the Oscar voting pool more diverse seem to be slowly paying off, with best picture nominations for Get Out, Call Me By Your Name and Lady Bird. We heard from some of the Oscar pioneers, including Rachel Morrison, the first-ever female nominee for cinematography, and took a special look at best supporting actress nominee Mary J Blige. The new mood still hasn\u2019t stopped some of the nominated films miring themselves in controversy: Three Billboards has been accused of dodgy racial politics, Call Me By Your Name of promoting underage sex and Shape of Water film-makers are being sued for plagiarism. \u2022 One bit of positive news: after vociferous complaints over the exclusion of female directors from the Golden Globe list, the Oscars managed to right the wrong by voting Greta Gerwig through in the best director category. To be honest, Guillermo del Toro is the nailed-down winner for this one, striking (yet another) blow for Mexican film-makers. \u2022 Nobody\u2019s sure what will happen on the red carpet; after the Globe and Bafta blackouts, will the Oscars follow suit? The Guardian\u2019s fashion team have taken the temperature. \u2022 Making the best of a bad thing: Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway are returning to present the best picture award. We trust they\u2019ll be a bit more careful this time. \u2022 Someone who won\u2019t be showing up: Kareem Abeed, producer of Last Men in Aleppo (nominated for best documentary), who was denied a visa by US authorities. Here\u2019s the film\u2019s director Feras Fayyad on the hostility his film has provoked. \u2022 Our music maestro has made his way through the full best song list; read the verdict here. \u2022 Some Oscar history: the strangest nominations (George Bernard Shaw? Me neither) and the ongoing debate over whether 2004 winner Crash really was the worst ever. Everyone likes a snub, too. \u2022 What happened at the epic \u201cclass photo\u201d picture shoot at the nominees lunch. No one mention the cutout. \u2022 The Australian and British contenders, if that\u2019s your thing. \u2022 The always schadenfreudery rundown of the films that tried but failed to get on the Oscar radar. \u2022 And finally: the 2018 Oscars in numbers. All you need now is your Oscar bingo card. Eyes down!"
"3||Syrian government forces capture villages of eastern GhoutaForces loyal to the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, have captured six villages and towns bordering the besieged rebel-held enclave of eastern Ghouta, as hopes that a long-planned humanitarian convoy might enter the area were dashed again. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a London-based monitor, confirmed the latest advances, saying pro-regime government forces had seized about a quarter of the enclave on the outskirts of Damascus in recent days. \u201cMost of it is farms and there are few towns in [the captured area],\u201d said the Observatory\u2019s director, Rami Abdulrahman. The latest fighting took place as UN aid officials said they had not been given permission from Syrian officials to send 40 trucks carrying supplies to the town of Douma, despite optimism earlier in the week that the convoy would be allowed to enter. Condemning the lack of access, the UN\u2019s regional humanitarian coordinator, Panos Moumtzis, said on Sunday: \u201cOne week after the UN security council voted in favour of resolution 2401, calling for a one-month cessation of hostilities across the war-ravaged country, not only has this not happened, in some cases the violence has escalated, particularly for the close to 400,000 men, women and children of [eastern] Ghouta. \u201cInstead of a much-needed reprieve, we continue to see more fighting, more death, and more disturbing reports of hunger and hospitals being bombed. This collective punishment of civilians is simply unacceptable.\u201d Some of the heaviest fighting on Sunday was concentrated in the area of Beit Sawa on the eastern edge of the densely populated centre of eastern Ghouta, where civilians fled clashes between government forces and Jaysh al-Islam, one of three main rebel groups. Thousands in the encircled area have been sheltering in freezing basements and underground shelters in an attempt to escape from the daily bombardment. Neemat Mohsen, who heads the local women\u2019s office in Saqba, another town in eastern Ghouta, told the Associated Press that350 or more people lived in some shelters with no running water and no electricity. \u201cIn our street, over 500 metres there are only three basements. They have to house all the families there. We feel the prison shrinking. We were first besieged in an enormous prison called eastern Ghouta, now we are trapped in shelters similar to tombs,\u201d Mohsen said. \u201cWe are living real terror 24 hours a day.\u201d The reports of conditions inside the enclave came as Assad vowed that the assault would continue despite civilian casualties. \u201cThe majority (of people) in eastern Ghouta want to escape the embrace of terrorism. The operation must continue,\u201d Assad told journalists in remarks broadcast on state television. Encircled by regime-controlled territory and unable or unwilling to flee, residents have been subjected to one of the most ferocious assaults of Syria\u2019s civil war in recent weeks, including airstrikes and rocket and artillery bombardment. The violence comes on top of critical shortages of food and medicines and a catastrophic collapse of medical care as hospitals and first responders have been targeted. However, despite mounting international pressure on Syria and its backer Russia to allow access for aid and the evacuation of the wounded and civilians, a promised daily five-hour humanitarian pause has failed to materialise as forces loyal to Assad continued to press their assault. The French president, Emmanuel Macron, and the UN secretary general, Ant\u00f3nio Guterres, expressed \u201cgrave concern\u201d about the humanitarian situation in the area in a telephone conversation late on Saturday. \u201cThe UN convoys must immediately deliver medical assistance and food aid to the besieged population,\u201d the French president said. On Sunday, Macron asked his Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani to put pressure on the Syrian government to end the attacks and allow humanitarian aid in. Tehran is a key backer of the Syrian regime."
"2||FA chief adamant Pep Guardiola\u2019s yellow ribbon is political symbolMartin Glenn, the Football Association chief executive, has rejected any suggestion that Pep Guardiola wearing a yellow ribbon in support of imprisoned Catalan politicians is equivalent to the governing body\u2019s defiance over the poppy ban. Glenn claimed the Manchester City manager has angered many by wearing the ribbon during games. Guardiola has until 6pm on Monday to respond to a charge for wearing what the FA considers to be a political symbol, during the 1-0 FA Cup defeat by Wigan last month. It is understood an element of the City manager\u2019s defence may be a comparison to the FA\u2019s fight against Fifa\u2019s poppy ban. Guardiola\u2019s representatives are set to claim the ribbon is a show of solidarity for pro\u2011independence Catalan politicians imprisoned in Spain as opposed to an act of political activism. That idea is unlikely to hold much sway with the FA, which was able to argue successfully that the poppy was an act of remembrance for fallen soldiers and not a political emblem. \u201cWe have rewritten Law 4 of the game so that things like a poppy are OK but things that are going to be highly divisive are not,\u201d Glenn said. \u201cThat could be strong religious symbols, it could be the Star of David, it could the hammer and sickle, it could be a swastika, anything like Robert Mugabe on your shirt \u2013 these are the things we don\u2019t want. \u201cTo be honest, and to be very clear, Pep Guardiola\u2019s yellow ribbon is a political symbol, it\u2019s a symbol of Catalan independence and I can tell you there are many more Spaniards, non\u2011Catalans, who are pissed off by it. All we are doing is even-handedly applying the laws of the game. \u201cPoppies are not political symbols; that yellow ribbon is. Where do you draw the line, should we have someone with a Ukip badge? Someone with an Isis badge? That\u2019s why you have to be pretty tough that local, regional, national party organisations cannot use football shirts to represent them.\u201d Guardiola also wore the yellow ribbon on his jumper during City\u2019s win against Arsenal in the Carabao Cup final, although it could be seen only briefly as it was mostly concealed beneath his coat, and during Sunday\u2019s match against Chelsea. Last week he said he would consider whether to wear it given the controversy it has caused. Glenn said he had no problem with Fifa\u2019s rules on the displaying of political symbols during games. \u201cWe don\u2019t want football equipment to display political symbols. That has always been the case. The problem we had with poppies is that for some reason a new person at Fifa seemed to think poppies were a political symbol and we fought hard against that notion and thankfully sense broke out.\u201d Glenn was speaking after the International Football Association Board unanimously voted to approve the use of video assistant referees in time for the World Cup. The use of VAR is set to be rolled out across all top-flight leagues in Europe with the possible exception of the Premier League, with its 20 club chairmen set to vote on the technology next month. There are dissenting voices, including Crystal Palace\u2019s chairman, Steve Parish, who claimed it could send the game down a \u201cdangerous road\u201d. Glenn said he understood the trepidation of the Premier League but pointed out that VAR could prevent a situation where a team were relegated because of a mistake. \u201cThey have in my view chosen correctly not to be early adopters because why wouldn\u2019t you let other people find things out? The Premier League is the most lucrative league in the world so the consequence of a bad implementation of VAR is quite bad but likewise the consequence of not ever running VAR when the stakes are so high, someone getting relegated on the back of a refereeing error, which will happen, that could have been eliminated by VAR is a big deal as well. \u201cI genuinely feel with the Premier League it\u2019s not a question of if but when. They may want to take another year to do it but I think it will come in at some time for sure. I\u2019m not going to force it down anyone\u2019s throat.\u201d"
"4||May attacks 'perverse incentive' of housing industry bonusesTheresa May will hit out at the \u201cperverse incentive\u201d of housing industry bonus structures paying out millions of pounds to chief executives as a result of company profits rather than the number of homes built. The prime minister will make the comments as she unveils a series of measures, previously outlined in the government\u2019s housing white paper, to rewrite the rules on planning in an attempt to boost the speed of housebuilding and ease prices. She will call the \u201cnational housing crisis\u201d one of the biggest barriers to social mobility and argue that she \u201ccannot bring about the kind of society I want to see\u201d without tackling it. May, who wants to make housing her number one domestic priority, will say she expects \u201cdevelopers to do their duty to Britain and build the homes our country needs\u201d. Under the plans: Local authorities will be able to take into account how quickly a developer builds on a site before issuing future planning permission. Independent inspectors will be given the power to take over decision-making in local areas if \u201cnimby councils\u201d fail to publish housing plans quickly enough. Staff working for councils and hospitals will be given priority when public land is sold off. Homeowners will be able to add two storeys to existing properties. The prime minister will tell the national planning conference in London that developers must play their part too. \u201cThe bonuses paid to the heads of some of our biggest developers are based not on the number of homes they build but on their profits or share price,\u201d she will say. \u201cIn a market where lower supply equals higher prices that creates a perverse incentive, one that does not encourage them to build the homes we need.\u201d The comments come after a decision to pay the chief executive of housebuilder Persimmon a \u00a3110m bonus was widely criticised, with some describing it as \u201ccorporate looting\u201d. Jeff Fairburn collected the first \u00a350m worth of shares on New Year\u2019s Eve, while 140 members of senior staff were also in line for more than \u00a3500m, with more than 80 receiving in excess of \u00a31m. While the government cannot force a change in bonus structures, May will hope to pile pressure on companies. Areas where action can be taken include \u201callowing councils to take a developer\u2019s previous rate of build-out into account when deciding whether to grant planning permission\u201d, May will say. \u201cI want to see planning permissions going to people who are actually going to build houses, not just sit on land and watch its value rise. Where councils are allocating sufficient land for the homes people need, our new planning rulebook will stop developers building on large sites that aren\u2019t allocated in the plan \u2013 something that\u2019s not fair on residents who agree to a plan only to see it ignored.\u201d May will argue that the aim is to improve affordability so that more people can achieve the dream of home ownership. \u201cI still vividly remember the first home I shared with my husband, Philip. Not only our pictures on the walls and our books on the shelves, but the security that came from knowing we couldn\u2019t be asked to move on at short notice,\u201d she will say. But she will admit that in much of the country millions who ought to own cannot do so, and prices are being pushed upwards. \u201cThe result is a vicious circle from which most people can only escape with help from the bank of Mum and Dad. If you\u2019re not lucky enough to have such support, the door to home ownership is all too often locked and barred.\u201d Polly Neate, the chief executive of the housing charity Shelter, said the planning system was not delivering and welcomed the move, but said the evidence would be in the building figures. \u201cIt appears the government is waking up to the scale of our housing emergency and the critical need for action which is urgent and bold,\u201d she said. Steve Turner from the Home Builders Federation said: \u201cWe welcome measures to speed up the planning system and stimulate all parts of the market from starter to retirement homes. The industry has delivered big increases in recent years and is committed to working with government to go further and match supply to need.\u201d However, the shadow housing secretary argued that May should be embarrassed to be \u201cfronting up these feeble measures first announced a year ago\u201d. \u201cAfter eight years of failure on housing it\u2019s clear her government has got no plan to fix the housing crisis,\u201d John Healey said. One industry expert questioned whether linking planning permissions to former build-out rates was workable. He pointed out that permissions were attached to the location, not a particular developer, and many were held by landowners or promoters who would then sell on the site to a housing company. May will promise to retain protections for the green belt, saying boundaries can only be changed if every \u201cother reasonable option\u201d for places to build needed homes had been explored. Downing Street pointed out that only 10% of England has been built on and only 13% is covered by green belt. But Mark Littlewood, Director General at the Institute of Economic Affairs said the commitment to the Green belt meant the proposals fell \u201cat the first hurdle\u201d."
"2||Alan Pardew limps on with West Brom out of credible alternativesAlan Pardew has been granted a stay of execution despite a fifth successive league defeat for West Bromwich Albion. A combination of an improved performance at Watford and, crucially, the absence of any credible alternatives to take over as the manager means Pardew will remain in charge for Leicester City\u2019s visit on Saturday. Pardew accepted his job is at risk after the 1-0 defeat at Vicarage Road left West Brom rooted to the bottom and extended the manager\u2019s dismal record since replacing Tony Pulis in November. His team have won only one of 15 league games since he took over and picked up fewer points and scored fewer goals than any other top-flight club in that period. Pardew, in short, has had no positive impact on players who had already badly lost their way under Pulis. Yet the board at the Hawthorns have decided against making a change for a second time this season, partly after seeing some signs of positivity at Watford, where West Brom did not deserve to lose and could have taken the lead before Troy Deeney\u2019s late winner, but more as a result of the fact they are unable to identify a manager capable of turning things around. West Brom are eight points adrift of safety with nine matches remaining, with Pardew admitting the table makes \u201cdaunting\u201d reading. For the second successive game, supporters called for Pardew to be sacked and it could be an uncomfortable atmosphere at the Hawthorns if they slip to yet another defeat against Leicester. There is no getting away from the fact Pardew\u2019s reign has been nothing short of a disaster. Results have been miserable, four players were disciplined for breaking a midnight curfew and allegedly stealing a taxi during a team-bonding trip in Barcelona, and only last week Chris Brunt questioned the manager\u2019s tactics in a dressing-room row after the 2-1 home defeat against Huddersfield. Asked where the defeat against Watford left West Brom, Pardew replied: \u201cIn a difficult position, let\u2019s be honest. It\u2019s not where we want to be. If you were to look at the table, it would look daunting, and for myself and the players we\u2019re best focusing on Leicester and trying to get a win and go from there. That\u2019s what we\u2019ll do.\u201d"
"2||Marcus Rashford\u2019s progress praised by Manchester United\u2019s Jos\u00e9 MourinhoJos\u00e9 Mourinho is pleased with Marcus Rashford\u2019s progress this season in the face of what Manchester United\u2019s manager has described as unrealistic expectations. The 20-year-old has scored 11 times in 40 appearances, equalling last term\u2019s goals total, which came in 52 games. He seems certain to continue to improve his season-by-season tally, after eight in 18 appearances in his debut campaign of 2015-16. Mourinho had previously stated that this season would feature a step-change in performance from Rashford following what can often be a challenging second season in the first team. Asked about this, Mourinho said: \u201cAt his age, what he\u2019s doing is more than enough and the experience he\u2019s getting at every level is more than enough for us to be happy with what we think is going to be his future. It\u2019s as simple as that. But because he had such an impact at the beginning, probably people expect him to play even more than he does, and score even more than he does and perform even more than what he does but it is not so simple. \u201cWhat I see makes me really happy, to see the same boy. Marcus is a fantastic boy, very grounded. For sure, we love him and we believe in him, and he\u2019s going to have the chances.\u201d Mourinho, speaking before Monday\u2019s game at Crystal Palace, said he had not offered Rashford any assurances regarding his status. \u201cNo, I don\u2019t reassure anyone. The main reassurance is that he is always selected. There is not one single match when Marcus is not selected to start or to be on the bench.\u201d Mourinho has repeatedly said he will not buy a forward in the summer. With Zlatan Ibrahimovic expected to leave, Rashford may be offered more game time as a stand-in to Romelu Lukaku at centre-forward. \u201cThe good thing with Marcus is that he can play in the three attacking positions, so even when he doesn\u2019t start, to have him on the bench is such a security for me and for the team,\u201d Mourinho said. Mourinho believes Rashford\u2019s prospects of selection by England for Russia 2018 will be unaffected by not being a regular, the forward having started only 13 of 28 Premier League games for United. \u201cIt\u2019s up to Gareth Southgate. If he trusts him, he selects him. It doesn\u2019t matter if he plays or if he doesn\u2019t play for Manchester United.\u201d"
"5||Homeland recap \u2013 season seven, episode three: Standoff\u2018It\u2019s safe to say I\u2019m not as risk-averse as I should be\u2019 Carrie shows up at Dr Meyer\u2019s office in a desperate state and together they make the decision to switch medications. It\u2019s a risky, lengthy process that begins with taking Seroquel to break the manic cycle. The sedative takes her out of commission before she is roughly dragged back in by Dante who has ID\u2019d the mystery woman from Wellington\u2019s home. French NGO worker Simone Martin can be placed just three miles from the West Virginia prison where McClendon was held, the day before he was killed. You don\u2019t have to be Alex Jones to think that\u2019s significant. It\u2019s enough to get Carrie back in the game and, a couple of her sister\u2019s pep pills later, she\u2019s at Martin\u2019s house, breaking and entering like the good old days. Unfortunately, her daylight trespass is clocked by the cops and her alibi game is feeble (\u201cfeeding my friend\u2019s cat\u201d indeed). It\u2019s a struggle to explain her actions down at the police precinct, but fortunately Dante has enough sway to extract her without her card being marked. Carrie now has the contents of Simone Martin\u2019s hard drive and more evidence that her gut feeling about David Wellington was correct. \u2018You want us? You\u2019re gonna have to shoot us in the back\u2019 Saul always thinks people can be reasoned with. It\u2019s his biggest strength and biggest weakness. He can talk amicably with O\u2019Keefe, discuss his terms of surrender and feel like he\u2019s making progress. There are women and children in the compound after all. The problem is that O\u2019Keefe\u2019s protectors are not big on reason. They use the distraction of the negotiations to muscle up and soon there\u2019s an ever-growing hick militia facing down an ever-more pissed off FBI. He narrowly avoids being taken hostage and the humiliating failure of his strategy pushes us closer to another Waco. All of a sudden Saul looks like he misses his prison cell. As for O\u2019Keefe, he has the look of a man who can\u2019t fire a gun surrounded by lunatic fringe marksmen who only take orders from God. \u2018I am not gonna blow up a convoy in Syria in order to control the news cycle\u2019 By now we\u2019re so familiar with President Keane the tyrant, scourge of the intelligence community and serial human rights abuser that we quickly forget that she ran on a liberal anti-war ticket. Her generals certainly seem to have as they try to strong-arm her into bombing an arms shipment from Iran heading to bolster Assad\u2019s troops in Syria. She firmly reminds them of her position. Don\u2019t they remember what happened to the last general who played with her? The convoy will not be bombed. David Wellington has other ideas, though. In a bizarre overreach, he phones General Rossen and lies that Elizabeth has changed her mind, giving the go-ahead for the attack. I can\u2019t wait to see him try and mansplain that one next week. I don\u2019t see his vacuous nonsense about \u201cchanging the conversation\u201d cutting it. Trying to figure out what David Wellington is up to is a tough one. He pushed for the 200 to be released and suggested that O\u2019Keefe should be released without charge, but there\u2019s generally a practical reason behind his stances. Undermining the president over the convoy suggests a darker motive as he\u2019s nothing if not calculated. Factor in whatever he\u2019s got going on with Simone Martin and you\u2019ve got a deeply shady character at the heart of the Keane administration. Notes and observations Do people engaged in high-level political assassinations really get parking tickets? Adderall, the drug Carrie uses to counteract her Seroquel haze, is an amphetamine used to treat ADHD and narcolepsy. The DEA rate it as having \u201chigh potential for abuse,\u201d so strap yourself in for the inevitable \u201cCarrie strung out on speed\u201d storyline. Dante and Carrie bond over Kabul, his bipolar ex and his drinking problem. We know she has a thing for damaged, complex men working in the intelligence community, so there\u2019s obviously love interest potential there. Right now, though she just needs someone watching her back and on that score, he\u2019s got her covered so far. It was gratifying to see O\u2019Keefe\u2019s producer/girlfriend/muse Sharon finally make a break for freedom. She will finally get to sleep in her own bed again, if she avoids jail time. What exactly is David\u2019s game? How does the compound siege end? Should Dante and Carrie be a thing? Let me know below."
"6||Kyle Edmund \u2018humbled\u2019 to overtake Andy Murray into British No\u00a01 spotKyle Edmund replaces Andy Murray as Britain\u2019s No1 player on Monday and the 23-year-old Yorkshireman concedes his elevation owes as much to the Scot\u2019s enforced nine-month sabbatical as his own rapid improvement over the past year. His challenge now, as one of only 12 British players in the 52-year history of the Open era to wear the domestic crown, is to establish his own identity on the international stage as the game enters a period of uncertainty not witnessed since before the rise of Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal. The subsequent rivalries of Murray and Novak Djokovic consolidated that hegemony but Nadal, Murray, Djokovic and Stan Wawrinka are hors de combat; Federer, 37 in August, still floats above them all. \u201cIt is humbling to become the British number one,\u201d Edmund said on Sunday night before confirmation of the inevitable end to Murray\u2019s 12-year reign as the nation\u2019s highest-rated player when the weekly ATP rankings are adjusted on Monday morning. He added that his rise had happened \u201cperhaps unwittingly, as Andy has dropped down in rankings due to his injury\u201d. Nevertheless Edmund relishes Murray\u2019s projected return to the Tour \u2013 probably at Queen\u2019s in June, perhaps at Loughborough in May if he does a unique deal with the LTA to play in a one-off Challenger, indoors on hardcourt \u2013 to engage in the sort of rivalry UK men\u2019s tennis has not had since Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski early in the millennium. \u201cProud as I am, I would have been much happier had Andy stayed healthy and occupied his place at the very top where he belongs,\u201d Edmund said. \u201cI wish Andy a speedy recovery and I hope to battle it out with him in a more legitimate fashion in years to come.\u201d Although sidelined for the past fortnight with flu, Edmund edges up one place on the game\u2019s honour board to a career-high 24th, while Murray, who was world No 1 for 42 weeks until September 2016, slips nine places to 29. He has not been ranked so low for eight years. Since he established himself in the upper echelons of the game in the summer of 2008 Murray has rarely been out of the top 10 and then mainly through enforced absences because of surgeries or their lingering consequences. He reluctantly went under the knife for the second time in Melbourne in January to heal a chronic hip injury and said last week his recuperation was ahead of schedule. Having not played since losing against Sam Querrey in the Wimbledon quarter-finals last summer, Murray understands he faces a serious challenge to get back among the elite when he returns. Edmund said: \u201cI\u2019ll continue to work hard and represent Great Britain as best as I can. A bad dose of the flu virus kept me out in Buenos Aires and in Rio but I am back on track and excited to get back to it. I\u2019m ready to play in Indian Wells [which starts on Monday] and Miami [19 March].\u201d Murray has beaten Edmund in their only two Tour meetings but he lost to him in the final of the short-form Tie Break Tens at the Royal Albert Hall in December 2015. Over three hours of the tournament, Edmund earned $250,000 \u2013 more than twice his take-home pay for the rest of the season. He bought a London flat but also invested much of his winnings in his support team, and that has paid off handsomely over the past year, during which time he has won 39 of 65 matches (60%) and, more significantly, 10 of 14 in the four slam tournaments \u2013 including a run to the Australian Open semi-finals. He has also won 10 of his 15 best-of-five matches, which had been his abiding weakness. Edmund has blossomed in confidence, as well as the execution of his intimidating ground strokes and improved serve, since hiring the respected Swedish coach Frederik Rosengren. He has also relocated to the tax-friendly Bahamas, and his Starwings management team, led by Lawrence Frankopan, has just secured him a sponsorship deal with British Airways. Edmund flew economy to Australia this year. He was considerably upgraded after reaching the semi-finals \u2013 in the air and in the game."
"7||Starwatch: spectacular line-up of three bright planetsEarly risers may have already noticed the beautiful planetary alignment taking place in the south-east before dawn. The bright planets of Saturn, Mars and Jupiter are strung out in a line. Saturn sits in Sagittarius, Mars in Ophiuchus and Jupiter in Libra. The colours of the planets are particularly notable. Jupiter\u2019s bright clouds give it a brilliant white light, whereas Mars is distinctly red to the eye. Completing the trio, Saturn is a pale yellow that betrays the more muted tones found in its atmosphere. Just below this line of planets, filling in the gap between Mars and Jupiter, is the red giant star Antares. This alignment alone is worth keeping an eye open for but starting on 7 March the waning gibbous moon joins the tableau, making it even more special. The chart shows the view at 05:30 GMT on 8 March when the Moon is in the constellation Scorpius."
"8||Corrections and clarifications\u2022 Our obituary of the Bollywood film star Sridevi described her husband Boney Kapoor as a director. He is a film producer (28 February, page 8, Journal). \u2022 We referred to \u201ccollard dove\u201d in a country diary column. As a reader pointed out, that should have said \u201ccollared dove\u201d (Wenlock Edge, 28 February, page 7, Journal)."
"6||Roger Bannister, a gentleman who almost didn\u2019t run race that defined himEven now, 64 years on, 3:59.4 is a number recognisable to every sports fan \u2013 and one that instantly unlocks sepia images in the mind\u2019s eye. Of Sir Roger Bannister hurling his body across the line in a desperate bid to make history. Of an expectant crowd around him. And then the deafening roar \u2013 and the sweetest release \u2013 as the crowd hears he has become the first person to run the mile in under four minutes. Sir Roger was later to become a prominent neurologist but by then he already knew the power of the mind. As he admitted, he imagined bombs and machine guns would rain down on him if he did not go at absolute full pelt. Yet Bannister\u2019s record for the ages, achieved on 6 May 1954, nearly never took place. For after working in a hospital that morning, he almost decided not to travel to the Iffley Road track in Oxford because of high winds. However a chance meeting with his coach, Franz Stampfl, convinced him otherwise. Stampfl told him: \u201cIf you pass it up today you may never forgive yourself for the rest of your life.\u201d Yet it was only 30 minutes before the race was due to start at 6pm that Bannister decided he would compete. \u201cMy pacemakers Chris Brasher and Chris Chataway were getting a little impatient,\u201d he told me in 2014. \u201cThey were saying: \u2018Make up your mind!\u2019 But it was I who had to do it. I was very concerned about the weather but when the wind dropped it proved just possible.\u201d Bannister\u2019s performance was more remarkable still given his lack of training. He would skip his gynaecology lectures, enabling him to run for 45 minutes at lunchtime, and did only 35 miles a week. What is also forgotten is Bannister had felt \u201cstale\u201d a month before breaking the record and so had decided on a radical strategy: a three-day break to go hiking. It was, he admitted, \u201cbordering on the lunatic\u201d. But there was a method to the madness. It gave Bannister time away from training and took his mind off the record attempt. His key training session involved 10 repetitions of 400m with short rest periods between each lap \u2013 his aim being to do each one in around 60 seconds. Before his break he had struggled. Afterwards he took flight \u2013 and suddenly laps of 59 seconds felt easy. But Bannister still had to break a barrier many thought was physiologically impossible. When I spoke to him on the 60th anniversary of his achievement he talked through the race fluently but dispassionately. The anger he felt after a false start by his first pacemaker, Brasher. Then feeling so full of energy on the first lap he was shouting: \u201cFaster!\u201d And then the fear at the end of the 62.4sec third lap when the record appeared to be slipping away. \u201cI heard the lap times as they went by,\u201d he says. \u201cThe first was 58. The half-mile 1.58. But the three\u2011quarters was three minutes and one second so I knew I had to produce a last lap of under 59. \u201cI was also unsure whether I should start my finish immediately or wait another 150 yards and overtake Chataway in the back straight. I decided I would stay a bit longer and then went. There was plenty of adrenaline then, I can assure you!\u201d When his effort was spent he collapsed, almost unconscious. He described feeling like \u201can exploded flashbulb\u201d but he had the record. And it changed him. As he put it: \u201cI suddenly and gloriously felt free from the burden of athletic ambition I had been carrying for years.\u201d His record lasted six weeks before the Australian John Landy lowered it by more than a second. But later in 1954, when the pair met at the Empire Games in Vancouver, Bannister emerged triumphant after an epic contest \u2013 later called, with complete justification, the Miracle Mile \u2013 coming from 15 yards down with a surprise sprint off the last bend. \u201cI felt it was a piece of unfinished business to be able to reproduce the performance of my sub-four-minute mile in a race,\u201d Bannister said. \u201cAnd I ran the final lap in the last race I had in England beforehand in 53 seconds to persuade Landy that his best chance was to run me off my feet. \u201cHowever at the half-mile he looked as though he was doing it. He was 15 yards ahead and I thought either he\u2019s going to break a world record in 3min 56sec or he\u2019s going to have to slow. But I managed to catch him by the bell \u2013 and then I just managed to choose the right moment to take him by surprise.\u201d It is often said when someone dies that \u201cwe will never see their like again\u201d but in Bannister\u2019s case it is almost certainly true. For having won the Empire Games and European Championships in 1954 he then hung up his spikes aged just 25 \u2013 at his absolute prime \u2013 to focus on medicine. Bannister admitted in 2014: \u201cIf I were to start running today I could not combine training with being a medical student. \u201cMost top athletes will train two-three hours a day, whereas I would run half an hour \u2013 very hard \u2013 five days a week.\u201d But while the last of the gentleman athletes has left us - his legacy will endure for ever. Altogether now: 3:59.4."
"2||Antonio Conte hits back at comments by Jamie Redknapp and Gary NevilleAntonio Conte branded the Sky Sports pundits Jamie Redknapp and Gary Neville \u201cstupid\u201d after they described Chelsea\u2019s display in their 1-0 defeat by Manchester City as \u201canti-football\u201d and \u201cembarrassing\u201d respectively. A Bernardo Silva goal seconds into the second half handed Chelsea a fourth league defeat in their past five matches and stretched City\u2019s lead over Liverpool to 18 points, though Manchester United can cut that to 16 if they beat Crystal Palace on Monday night. Redknapp also labelled Chelsea\u2019s performance as a \u201ccrime against football\u201d while Neville, who was on co-commentary duties at the Etihad Stadium, said the visiting players had performed like \u201cmannequins\u201d. Informed of the comments, Conte said: \u201cThe pundit has to use the head to understand when you speak about tactics. I think you must have knowledge to speak about tactics and not only to speak in a stupid way. You have to accept every criticism but I am not so stupid to play against Manchester City open and to lose 3-0 or 4-0. \u201cIf I remember well, Arsenal played twice against them and then you [media] criticise a lot [Ars\u00e8ne] Wenger because they concede three goals in only 30 minutes.\u201d Asked to explain the poor run of form, he said: \u201cWe must have big regrets for the defeat against Bournemouth and Watford, against Manchester United but I don\u2019t think today because we played against a team that are shown to be a strong team. \u201cToday they showed the difference between them and us. When you play against City, this kind of team, they are showing fantastic quality but at the same time fantastic mentality. When you match quality and mentality you become unstoppable.\u201d Pep Guardiola wants City to beat the record Premier League points total of 95, though his prime focus is on securing the title after the win left them needing four more victories. \u201cYes, of course, but we\u2019re not going to play for the records, we are going to play good, to win the games and after it will be a consequence of that,\u201d he said. \u201cRecords are always a consequence of what you have done but if you think about the records you forget what you have to do.\u201d Guardiola admitted City\u2019s lead was not expected. \u201cNo way \u2013 who could believe it? Not just the results but the way we play today was another demonstration [of how good we are]. That is when I\u2019m pleased the most but, of course, could I expect after what happened the previous season, with five or six contenders, to have the distance from many teams now \u2013 25 to Chelsea, 33 to Arsenal is a lot \u2013 it\u2019s March. They made good results but we were so good.\u201d"
"6||NFL stars blown away by one-handed Shaquem Griffin's record speed at combineThe NFL combine, in which college players show off their skills to scouts and coaches, is usually dominated by athletes who have been tipped for greatness for years. This year\u2019s star is a little different. When Shaquem Griffin was a child, his left hand was amputated due to a pre-natal condition. He nevertheless grew up to star for his high school in track, football and baseball before winning an athletics scholarship to the University of Central Florida alongside his twin brother, Shaquill. Some believed UCF had offered Shaquem a place just to curry favor with Shaquill. If that was true the coaching staff were soon pleasantly surprised: the linebacker was named American Athletic Conference defensive player of the year in 2016. At this week\u2019s combine, Shaquem was again expected to be a curiosity rather than a standout performer. But on Saturday he bench-pressed 225lb 20 times, using a prosthetic hand. His previous best was 11 and his twin, who turned pro early with the Seattle Seahawks) had only managed 17 last year. \u201cEverybody in the stands was hyping me up,\u201d Griffin said. \u201c I got the guys I\u2019m here with hyping me up. It felt amazing.\u201d On Sunday, Griffin was even better in the 40-yard dash, an important event in a league where speed is a coveted skill. His time of 4.38 seconds was the fastest ever by a linebacker \u2013 4.65 is considered outstanding \u2013 and the exact same time as his brother, a cornerback, managed last year. Shaquem\u2019s time was also faster than the combine\u2019s top-rated wide receiver, Calvin Ridley and running back Saquon Barkley, who is considered a future star. \u201cThis is a legitimate football player,\u201d NFL Network analyst Mike Mayock said. \u201cHe\u2019s an energy giver.\u201d Griffin\u2019s performance created a buzz among scouts and coaches \u2013 and also caught the attention of NFL players. \u201cShaquem Griffin killing it,\u201d tweeted three-time NFL defensive player of the year JJ Watt, of the Houston Texans. Four-time Pro Bowler Richard Sherman wrote: \u201cIf @Shaquemgriffin doesn\u2019t get drafted in the first two days the system is broken. Productive and performed well at the combine. Played well against high level competition.\u201d Griffin\u2019s performance should be met with some caveats. Although the drills at the combine show coaches what players are capable of they are not predictors of success in the professional game. Many NFL stars have performed modestly at the event. Other players have displayed blazing speed only to struggle in the pros. However, Griffin did himself no harm in Indianapolis this week and is expected to be picked up by a team in the later rounds of the draft."
"9||Morning mail: lobbying forced backdown over land clearingGood morning, this is Eleanor Ainge Roy bringing you the main stories and must-reads on Monday 5 March. Top stories Intense lobbying by Liberal and National MPs forced the government to back down from attempts to stop potentially unlawful clearing in Queensland, according to freedom of information documents obtained by the Guardian. Two months after asking 51 landholders to explain why the clearances were not unlawful, the federal environment department sent a letter to the same landholders expressing \u201cdeep regret\u201d for any distress caused. The sharp U-turn in 2016 exposes the Coalition\u2019s involvement in the full-blown land-clearing crisis that threatens to devastate trees, plants and wildlife in the eastern states. The situation is especially bad in Queensland where more land is cleared of trees than in the rest of the country combined. The latest figures show 395,000 hectares were cleared in a single year \u2013 amounting to about a football stadium of clearing every three minutes. As part of our ongoing Wide Brown Land series, our environment editor Michael Slezak has been investigating the crisis. Forecasts suggest that in the two decades to 2030, 3m hectares of untouched forest will have been bulldozed amid a rush to clear land for livestock for the booming agriculture sector. Governments meanwhile have failed to enforce restrictions. To help visualise the devastation, you can use our interactive tool to map its impact. White House officials fanned out on Sunday to support Donald Trump\u2019s planned imposition of tariffs on aluminium and steel imports, describing it as a national security issue. Amid international consternation, British prime minister Theresa May called Trump expressing \u201cdeep concern\u201d, and critics said the move was a needless provocation of allies and enemies alike. One Democratic senator said targeting China could damage attempts to reduce tensions with nuclear-armed North Korea. Peter Navarro, director of the White House National Trade Council, confirmed that China was the focus of Trump\u2019s surprise decision. \u201cChina is at the root of the problem,\u201d Navarro told CNN\u2019s Face the Nation. \u201cChina has tremendous overcapacity in both aluminium and steel. They flood the world market and this whittles down to our shores.\u201d One of Australia\u2019s most respected thinktanks has weighed into the population growth debate, saying the federal government needs to develop an explicit population policy that defines the \u201cappropriate\u201d level of migration, and it may need to reduce the migrant intake to improve wellbeing. The Grattan Institute says it is entering the debate cautiously, and it has deliberately not identified an optimum level of migration. But it says the Turnbull government needs to seriously consider the degree to which major cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne, are struggling to cope with high population growth. Ben Raue delves into the Tasmanian election, how the minor parties\u2019 vote stalled and why Labor was not able to form government. \u201cThis election emphasises a dilemma for Labor \u2013 there are many swing voters who will only vote for Labor if they believe they can govern alone,\u201d he writes. \u201cYet the Greens will continue to play a major role in Tasmanian elections and the voting system ensures they will keep a toehold in Tasmania\u2019s lower house.\u201d Labor and the Greens formed government together from 2010 until 2014, but were both punished with significant drops in support at the 2014 election. \u201cSo how do you find a way to cooperate with a party who many swing voters don\u2019t like, or convince those voters that you will be able to govern alone, when that requires a big jump in your vote? Until Labor solves this problem, they will struggle to win elections in Tasmania.\u201d Angela Merkel has secured her fourth term in power after Germany\u2019s Social Democratic party (SPD) agreed to form another \u201cgrand coalition\u201d government with the conservative Christian Democratic Union (CDU). The SPD announcement ends almost six months of uncertainty in German politics, the longest the country has been without a government in its postwar history. With both Merkel\u2019s party and the SPD facing internal calls for a programmatic reboot and the far-right Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland (AfD) now the biggest opposition party in parliament, the new government\u2019s stability will likely be tested. Sport The Bulldogs are one game clear on the top of the ladder, while Melbourne, inspired by a best-on-ground performance from captain Daisy Pearce, now sit equal on points with the Brisbane Lions in third. That would suggest the grand final race is down to three, but with dark horses GWS and Adelaide lurking a half-game behind in fourth and fifth, the season remains wide open. Thanks to chief executive Lawrie McKinna and his appointment of Ernie Merrick, the Jets have gone from last in 2016/17 to challengers in 2017/18. They boast increased home attendances, and as Andrew Nabbout\u2019s goal celebration showed against Sydney FC, a special connection between crowds and players. The romance of their story is a case study for what a well-functioning A-League can deliver. Thinking time Dr Mark\u2019s Marching Academy, a community group that has taken part in the Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras parade every year for nearly 20 years, marched for the last time this year. Guardian photographer Carly Earl joined the group and documented their final walk up Oxford Street. She also hears the stories of participants in the parade \u2013 from newlyweds celebrating after the same-sex marriage vote to those struggling with a friend\u2019s suicide. One of the participants, Amanda Jane Baus, says: \u201cI am marching this year because this time last year I was fighting for my life undergoing chemo and radiation for lymphoma. I told myself and my best friend, Claire, that we would march in 2018. That was my goal.\u201d The Oscars award ceremony kicks off at midday Australian time, and the Guardian has compiled a final list of predictions, background reading and need-to-knows, in what promises to be \u2013 in the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal and the Time\u2019s Up campaign \u2013 one of the most memorable Oscars ever. \u201cThe consensus is that this year\u2019s best picture Oscar has boiled down to a two-horse race, between The Shape of Water and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri \u2013 the former edging ahead despite the latter winning the equivalent award at the Baftas and coming out on top at the Globes. \u201cThe commonwealth\u2019s National Heritage List has finally recognised a symbolic part of central Melbourne where the bones of many Indigenous elders lay buried,\u201d writes Paul Daley. \u201cFor Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians, the incorporation into the list of the Melbourne Domain Parkland and Memorial Precinct (including the Kings Domain Resting Place where the elders are buried) represents long overdue official acknowledgment of the injustice and disrespect shown to Indigenous dead.\u201d Media roundup Barnaby Joyce\u2019s colleagues have lashed out at the former deputy PM, the Herald Sun reports, criticising him for casting doubt over the paternity of his unborn child. The Australian leads with the \u201ctsunami\u201d of child sexual assault cases in Indigenous communities, reporting agencies are \u201cswamped\u201d by the scale of neglect, with one minister suggesting martial law should be imposed. And the ABC has a guide on how to fake your way through this year\u2019s Oscars if you didn\u2019t have time to watch all the nominated films. Coming up Cardinal George Pell will face court for a four-week committal hearing on multiple historical sexual offence charges involving multiple complainants. Court will be closed for complainant evidence from Monday afternoon. Katy Gallagher\u2019s lawyers will make a submission to the high court in Canberra over her citizenship case. Supporting the Guardian We\u2019d like to acknowledge our generous supporters who enable us to keep reporting on the critical stories. If you value what we do and would like to help, please make a contribution or become a supporter today. Thank you. Sign up If you would like to receive the Guardian Australia morning mail to your email inbox every weekday, sign up here."
"10||Christie: Trump\u2019s reliance on family hurts ability to run White HouseAfter a week of chaos and infighting at the White House, speculation remains rife over who might soon follow communications director Hope Hicks and resign. Presidential son-in-law Jared Kushner saw his ability to function as a senior adviser threatened after his security clearances were downgraded at the behest of the chief of staff, John Kelly, whose own position has been questioned recently. On Sunday Chris Christie, the former New Jersey governor who managed Trump\u2019s transition and remains a loyal supporter, said the president\u2019s reliance on family members compromised his ability to run the White House. But Christie, whose hopes of becoming attorney general were reportedly quashed as payback for his role in jailing Kushner\u2019s father Charles, sidestepped the question of whether he thought the son should be removed. \u201cThe president\u2019s going to have to make that judgment,\u201d Christie told ABC\u2019s This Week. He added: \u201cThis is most particularly sensitive because it\u2019s a family member. In a normal situation, you might terminate a staff member for that reason. It becomes a lot more difficult if you\u2019re going to be sitting at Thanksgiving dinner with that person. \u201cAnd so for Jared and for Ivanka [Trump\u2019s daughter] and for all the other members of the family who were involved in one way or the other, I think everybody\u2019s got to focus on what\u2019s best for the president.\u201d Kushner is facing a series of reports concerning the intersection of his business and political portfolios, including one by the New York Times that said his company received hundreds of millions of dollars in loans from investors who attended White House meetings. It was also reported that the president is considering whether his daughter and son-in-law should return to New York. Christie pointedly praised Hicks, who became embroiled in controversy over the handling of domestic assault allegations against former White House staff secretary Rob Porter, to whom she was romantically linked. Hicks also appeared before the House intelligence committee this week, admitting in a nine-hour appearance to telling \u201cwhite lies\u201d for the president. \u201cI think Hope Hicks saw that between the Rob Porter situation and some of the other things that were going on that she was becoming a distraction for the president and less of an asset in her mind,\u201d Christie said. \u201cAnd she did the noble thing, in my view, which was to say, \u2018You know what? If I\u2019m not 100% an asset for the president, I\u2019m gonna back away.\u2019 And I think she deserves credit and I don\u2019t think she\u2019s getting a lot of it in this kind of scandal-driven stuff that\u2019s going on.\u201d Among the names suggested as next out the door are chief economic adviser Gary Cohn, reportedly angered by Trump\u2019s sudden trade tariff decision, and national security adviser HR McMaster, who has reportedly never got on with the president. The White House has denied that either man will leave. Despite Trump\u2019s public falling out with Jeff Sessions, it is not thought likely the attorney general will go. The former White House chief of staff Reince Priebus \u2013 who resigned last July \u2013 told ABC the Trump-Sessions feud was \u201ca problem\u201d but said: \u201cI don\u2019t think it would be good for the president for Attorney General Sessions to leave.\u201d Trump\u2019s grievance with Sessions is based on the former Alabama senator\u2019s decision to recuse himself from investigations into Russian election meddling. \u201c[Trump] feels like that was the first sin, the original sin and he feels slighted by it,\u201d said Priebus. \u201cHe doesn\u2019t like it and he\u2019s not going to let it go. And so I think when he feels frustrated by the Russia probe and all of those things he watches on television and reads about in the paper.\u201d Christie said: \u201cThe president has the right to do what he wants to do. And if the president has absolutely no confidence in the attorney general, then the president has to act.\u201d"
"2||Eden Hazard woe as Chelsea\u2019s false nine toils at Manchester CityWith 89 minutes gone at a drenched, slightly woozy Etihad Stadium Eden Hazard was taken off, bringing to an end an afternoon spent chasing fruitlessly as the most false of false nines. Antonio Conte was standing at the edge of his rectangle as his star player marched off at a pointed clip. Hazard passed without a glimmer. Not a jot. Not a flinch. This was not a blanking. It was an erasure. And with good reason, some might say. For all the perennial summer rumours, Hazard cares about this Chelsea team and has been a fine servant. This, though, was an afternoon that must rank with his most miserable in England. Hazard was roughed up with his back to goal. He chased gamely. He made almost zero dribbles. Hazard likes dribbling: he is very good at it. But twice now in 10 days he has instead been asked to watch while creative opponents, his de facto peers, have been allowed to express their talents while he trudges his lonely path, a caged bird in a No 10 shirt. Conte remains convinced that there is merit in playing Hazard as a false nine, despite the fact all the evidence suggests this system could have been designed to bring the worst out of his best player. All managers have their foibles but this has become a little painful. Hazard is one of the best players in Europe when he snipes in off the left or drops deep and takes the ball on the half turn. As a centre-forward he was once again neutered here, a peripheral Belgian interpretation of a particularly out-of-form Jermain Defoe. With 40 minutes gone Chelsea\u2019s former player of the year, the Real Madrid \u2018Galactico\u2019 in waiting, had touched the ball eight times. But then it was that kind of afternoon, a game of extended significant silences, lacking in some vital tension as soon as it became clear Chelsea had come here simply to sit and watch and await their own euthanasia. The Etihad Stadium had been a little pensive at kick-off on a still, sunlit, post-blizzard Manchester afternoon. For 10 minutes almost nothing happened. With 15 minutes gone City almost worked a shot at goal and the stadium growled and roared suddenly, like a man on a train waking up with a start. Chelsea were not just limp here. They were flaccid, crouched behind their guard without a counter\u2011punch, the kind of approach one might expect from a mid-table opponent fearful of embarrassment but not from the defending champions. The flip-side of this is City\u2019s brilliance this season, a team operating on a different level from its domestic peers. Here they started with three outfield players who could reasonably be described as defensive, and a 21\u2011year\u2011old Ukrainian midfielder at left\u2011back. Not that Chelsea got near seeking out any weak points. For the second time in 10 days Conte fielded a team to sit and wait against the kind of opponents who can pull a side apart like a master surgeon playing a very slow, deadly, patient game of pick-a-stick. In the opening hour City made 628 passes, a pass every six seconds. Just watching from the sidelines is enough to make one go cross eyed. Playing against it must be a uniquely draining assault on the senses. Leroy San\u00e9 unveiled a few of those Ski Sunday dribbles. And for most of the first half San\u00e9 was the only real point of illumination, a player in one of those sweet spots of form and fitness where just watching him take the ball or set off on a gliding run is a pure pleasure in itself. The problem with defending like a soggy, suffocating blanket is it takes only one slip to ruin the day. For Chelsea that moment came 33 seconds after half-time as Andreas Christensen miskicked in just the wrong spot, handing the ball to Sergio Ag\u00fcero, who laid it on to David Silva. Bernardo Silva then nipped in to finish his low cross with his shin. And that was pretty much that. A 1-0 defeat is no disgrace against a team of City\u2019s capacities. But is it time to talk about the product? Whisper it but the Premier League does not do narrative tension any more. Of the last six seasons only one \u2013 Liverpool, Brendan Rodgers, and all that \u2013 has delivered anything resembling a title race. How long can we reasonably expect to remain excited by a three-month jostle for a place in the top four? Not that Chelsea ever seemed likely to apply the kind of pressure Liverpool managed at Anfield, to take a grip on the lapels of this City team. Instead it was an afternoon when the title race took another giant step towards its own conclusion, in a game most notable for that pointed silence and for a sense of endings on all sides."
"11||May tells Trump of 'deep concern' over US trade tariff plansTheresa May has called Donald Trump to raise Britain\u2019s \u201cdeep concern\u201d over plans to impose tariffs of 25% on imports of steel and 10% on aluminium amid US threats of a trade war with China and escalating tensions with the EU. The prime minister had been scheduled to call the US president on Sunday to discuss the appalling situation in Syria, with the pair agreeing it was a humanitarian catastrophe driven by the Syrian regime and its backer, Russia, according to Downing Street. But May also turned to the question of Trump\u2019s comments on trade. \u201cThe prime minister raised our deep concern at the president\u2019s forthcoming announcement on steel and aluminium tariffs, noting that multilateral action was the only way to resolve the problem of global overcapacity in all parties\u2019 interests,\u201d said a No 10 spokeswoman. Trump\u2019s protectionism has been communicated through Twitter, where he claimed his country was losing billions of dollars on trade, adding that \u201ctrade wars are good, and easy to win\u201d. He also threatened taxes on European cars after the EU responded to the decisions on steel and aluminium by saying it could target US imports such as Harley-Davidson motorbikes, Levi\u2019s jeans and Kentucky bourbon whiskey. May has strongly signalled a desire to negotiate a bilateral trade agreement with the US after Brexit, but critics said Trump\u2019s \u201cAmerica first\u201d rhetoric underlined the potential danger of being too reliant on a transatlantic relationship. Senior government figures told the Guardian that plans to keep Britain closely tied to European standards after Brexit, which were outlined by the prime minister on Friday, had also cut the chances of a major trade deal with the US. One cabinet minister said sticking to EU regulations in a number of areas, particularly around industrial goods, would constrain the breadth of any future UK-US trade links. Sam Lowe, a trade expert at the Centre for European Reform thinktank, agreed, arguing that convergence in those areas makes \u201cdoing a deal with the US incredibly difficult as the majority of their aggressive objectives involve removing regulatory barriers to trade, especially when it comes to food standards\u201d. He added that it would make sense for the UK to keep its focus on European links. \u201cI\u2019d question the logic of running into a trade deal with a president who sees trade less as a means of achieving mutual prosperity and more an instrument of war.\u201d However, Jacob Rees-Mogg, the Tory MP who chairs the influential European Research Group, argued that the UK could still do a deal with the US, accepting American standards for imports into Britain. He said that could work as long as any goods falling below European standards were not then re-exported to the EU. May\u2019s speech, in which she reiterated her red lines around the single market and customs union but promised close cooperation beyond that, has led to a fragile unity on the government\u2019s backbenches. There has been some angst at cabinet level about briefings that have emerged in recent weeks. Cabinet ministers pushing for a softer Brexit were said to be irritated after an awayday at Chequers to agree the contents of the speech was immediately characterised by sources as \u201cdivergence has won the day\u201d. \u201cIt was more like divergence as a last resort,\u201d said another source with knowledge of the meeting. Senior MPs who supported remain, such as the Treasury select committee chair, Nicky Morgan, made clear they were happy with May\u2019s promise to prevent customs checks on the Irish border, believing that would secure a sensible deal overall. May rebuffed the suggestion that Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary, had raised the spectre of a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Republic in an internal government report handed to the prime minister. \u201cNo. Boris is absolutely clear that there won\u2019t be a hard border,\u201d she told the BBC1\u2019s Andrew Marr Show. Asked about the controversial paper in which Johnson said it would be \u201cwrong to see the task as maintaining \u2018no border\u2019 on the island of Ireland\u201d and that even with a hard border 95% of goods could pass without checks, May challenged the interpretation of his comments. \u201cHe\u2019s clear that there won\u2019t be a hard border between Northern Ireland and Ireland, and we\u2019re working to that,\u201d she said. \u201cWe\u2019ve got proposals as to how we can achieve that, now we\u2019re going to be able to sit down and talk with others about how we do that.\u201d Her comments came after claims that her Gavin Barwell, her chief of staff, had leaked Johnson\u2019s paper to Sky News. Whitehall sources said there were suspicions that the leak had originated from Downing Street or the Treasury, despite a strong denial from Barwell. They also said tMay had blocked Johnson\u2019s plea to publish the full document to place the argument in context. The prime minister reiterated her hopes for a customs agreement that would prevent a hard border. But Simon Coveney, Ireland\u2019s deputy prime minister, told Marr he was unsure whether the EU27 nations would be able to support the plan and that they would be worried about protecting the integrity of the single market. \u201cWhile of course we will explore and look at all of the proposed British solutions, they are essentially a starting point in negotiations as opposed to an end point,\u201d Coveney said."
"6||Andrew Pozzi times finish to perfection to win world indoor gold in 60m hurdlesBritain made a fine finish to the world indoor championships when Andrew Pozzi won gold in the 60m hurdles by a single hundredth of a second. The 25-year-old was in second place coming over the last hurdle but beat the USA\u2019s national champion, Jarret Eaton, with a well-timed dip for the line. It was Pozzi\u2019s first world medal, and there will be few more popular champions with the British fans and athletes. He has been seen as a talent since first breaking through in 2012 but has endured a lot of bad injuries. This win has been a long time coming. It was all the better, he said, to do it in Birmingham. Pozzi first fell in love with hurdling when he came to the city as a kid to watch the world indoors in 2003, when Allen Johnson won ahead of Colin Jackson, who came fifth in one of his last indoor races. The trials for that championships were the first athletics event Pozzi attended. \u201cIt\u2019s just phenomenal,\u201d Pozzi said, \u201cbut to do it here in Birmingham makes it tenfold better, because I\u2019ve grown up here in the last 10 years.\u201d He had to break off talking at that point, because the crowd\u2019s chanting was so loud. Pozzi was one of the British team\u2019s two captains. The other, Shelayna Oskan-Clarke, also won her first medal at a world championships after a brilliant last lap in the 800m final. Oskan-Clarke was fourth at the bell but overtook Ethiopia\u2019s Habitam Alemu on the back straight. She went under two minutes for the first time in an indoor 800m, and finished third in a personal best of 1min 59.81sec. Burundi\u2019s Francine Niyonsaba was first, in 1min 58.31sec. \u201cI kept telling myself in the call room: \u2018You can do it, you\u2019re strong enough,\u2019\u201d Oskan-Clarke said. She was. As were the British women\u2019s 4x400m relay team \u2013 eventually. The quartet of Meghan Beesley, Hannah Williams, Amy Allcock and Zoey Clark finished a distant fourth. For a moment it looked like they had won a medal anyway when Jamaica, who had finished third, were disqualified. But then, 40 minutes later, the British women were struck off, too. However, they appealed and were awarded the bronze. There has been so much of this silliness this week that the back-and-forth disqualifications have become to seem almost routine. The finish line only ends the first half of the race, the rest happens later on in the appeals room."
"6||RSPCA raises concern over jockeys' whips not adhering to guidelinesOn the eve of the Cheltenham Festival, so often a source of whip-related controversy, the RSPCA has expressed impatience that officials have no easy way of ascertaining that each jockey\u2019s whip has been made in accordance with the sport\u2019s strict guidelines. Microchipping of individual whips, announced by the British Horseracing Authority in 2009, has long since been abandoned, despite the protestations of the RSPCA\u2019s racing consultant, David Muir. \u201cIt\u2019s a concern that there is no real means to check that the whips being used on the course are in fact according to the specifications,\u201d Muir said on Sunday. \u201cOccasionally when I\u2019ve been at some courses, I\u2019ve looked at some whips and I\u2019ve thought they were suspicious.\u201d Muir\u2019s concerns were backed up by Denis Egan, chief executive of the Irish Turf Club, which is considering whether to insist on chipped whips being used by its jockeys, many of whom will ride at Cheltenham next week. \u201cIf you can\u2019t validate the whip, you can\u2019t be sure it is what it\u2019s supposed to be,\u201d Egan said. There was an increase in whip-rule breaches of 29% in Ireland last year and Egan said that included an increase in the number of horses being marked by the whip. \u201cI suspect some of the whips in use may not be what they\u2019re supposed to be, that some riders may be using unapproved whips. I can\u2019t prove that but microchips would get over all those problems. Every rider would put his whip in a chip reader on his way out to ride.\u201d A BHA statement said whips must be covered by foam, energy-absorbing padding and meet other specifications. It said whips and other safety equipment must be presented to the clerk of the scales, \u201cwho would be able to raise concerns should there be any visual signs that it is not in good condition\u201d. None of last year\u2019s 90,000 runners in Britain was found to have been marked. The use of chips was discontinued, the BHA said, because the condition of the whip was felt to be more important than its age. However, two of three veteran jump jockeys who spoke to the Guardian said in practice officials did not regularly inspect their whips. All added that they were diligent in replacing whips as soon as they felt it necessary, at a cost of around \u00a350 each time. A company based in Turkey says it has developed a \u201csmart\u201d whip, known as WhipChip, which detects and records the number of times it is used in a race and can even measure the force with which it is used. The Turkish Jockey Club has reportedly been testing it since last year and European officials are following the project with interest."
"6||Kyle Sinckler the bulldozer steps in to give Harlequins win over BathKyle Sinckler sets about winning his England place back on Monday with a spring in his step after a timely reminder of his talents, coming off the bench and almost immediately bulldozing over for the decisive try in Harlequins\u2019 gritty win against Bath \u2013 a first in the Premiership in 2018. Sinckler has not played for England since last year\u2019s Six Nations but the hamstring injury that ruled him out of the start of this year\u2019s tournament is behind him and, having been named in England\u2019s training squad to prepare for France over the weekend, he is back on Eddie Jones\u2019s radar. \u201cHe\u2019s an unbelievable guy who wears his heart on his sleeve and is hugely passionate,\u201d the Harlequins director of rugby, John Kingston, said. Sinckler\u2019s impact was in direct contrast to that of the Bath replacement prop Max Lahiff, who was introduced a few minutes earlier but was in the sin-bin less than 60 seconds after coming on. Harlequins took advantage of their extra man, with Sinckler powering over from close range to give the home side a lead too big for Bath to claw back. It was the pivotal moment of a match that was poor on quality but was ultimately enough to stop another rot for Harlequins, who had lost their previous four league matches \u2013 another sign of their struggles during the international windows. For Bath, ill-discipline was their downfall \u2013 they shipped 15 penalties \u2013 and they are down to seventh in the table, in danger of allowing their season to slip away. \u201cThe discipline killed us again,\u201d Bath\u2019s director of rugby, Todd Blackadder, said. \u201cWe\u2019re starting to question if we can learn, whether the boys are actually listening. Something within us internally has to fundamentally change.\u201d It was far from a vintage Harlequins performance but it was warmly received by the supporters who made the trip after the weather had forced the match to be delayed by 48 hours. Following the announcement last week of their partnership with the All Blacks, things are beginning to look up against for Harlequins. Demetri Catrakilis \u2013 making his first start since breaking a bone in his throat in early September \u2013 eventually got Harlequins going after Bath had dominated the early exchanges. Matt Banahan had opened the scoring after Taulupe Faletau, who got through another 80 minutes to prove he is ready to return for Wales, picked up from the base of a scrum, fed Kahn Fotuali\u2019i, who in turn put the Bath winger clear in the right corner. James Wilson missed the subsequent conversion and it was his pass, near the Harlequins 22, that was picked off by Tim Visser, who streaked clear and under the posts for his ninth try of the season. Catrakilis was then on target with a penalty on the half hour mark to stretch his side\u2019s lead. Not long after the restart Lahiff entered, then promptly exited, before Sinckler showed him how it is done, notching his first Premiership try since the final day of the 2015-16 season. Catrakilis converted before Bath rallied and were twice denied by the TMO. Marcus Smith added a late penalty before the 18-year-old was agonisingly short of running in a long-range try in the final minute, chased down by Mercer over all of 60 yards. Mercer has graduated from apprentice status with England while Smith is yet to \u2013 perhaps that was a demonstration of why. Leicester up to fifth after Manu Tuilagi inspires bonus point-win against Worcester Manu Tuilagi scored his second try in as many matches as Leicester moved up to fifth in the Premiership table with a bonus point win at Worcester. Tuilagi touched down with two minutes left on the clock as a late flurry of three tries in the last 11 minutes \u2013 Telusa Veainu scored the other \u2013 put the gloss on a 34-5 victory and sealed the bonus point. It is a third straight win for the Tigers, who are now just three points off the top four, after Jonah Holmes had put them on their way with the opening try after 12 minutes. Alafoti Fa\u2019osiliva registered for Worcester but Greg Bateman scored Leicester\u2019s second try and Matt Toomua was on target with a penalty before Tuilagi and Veainu cut loose late on. It means Worcester remain in 11th place, still 12 points above London Irish after the Exiles left Wasps empty-handed in another agonising defeat. London Irish trailed 17-16 after Petrus du Plessis\u2019s 75th-minute try but Tommy Bell missed the conversion that would have given Nick Kennedy\u2019s side the lead. Wasps swiftly punished the visitors with Tom Cruse scoring his second try of the game to seal a 24-16 win. Tries from Cruse and Dan Robson \u2013 as well as a penalty from the fit-again Danny Cipriani \u2013 had put Wasps in a commanding 14-0 lead, but Irish rallied with Dave Porecki going over and Bell adding two penalties, either side of one from Cipriani. Du Plessis\u2019s try gave Irish hope but ultimately they were unable to build on last weekend\u2019s win over Worcester. Gerard Meagher"
"2||SheBelieves Cup 2018: USA 1-1 France \u2013 as it happenedFrance came into this game with nowhere to go but up. They shook up the lineup and stuck with it most of the game. The result? Not bad at all. They matched or even exceeded the USA\u2019s physicality, and they had several incisive passes to set up chances denied either by goalkeeper Alyssa Naeher or defender Tierna Davidson. The USA get a mixed report card here. They\u2019re still missing Becky Sauerbrunn on the back line, and that was probably a factor in conceding the equalizer. More worrying was the lack of U.S. chances. France outshot the USA 13-11 and put four shots on goal (most of them late) to the USA\u2019s two. And the goal was a messy scramble with more than a little luck. But this tournament is supposed to be a difficult test. And the USA are certainly coping better with it than they did last year. Today was just a reminder that the World Cup is never a lock. On any given day, many European powers (and Japan or maybe Canada or Brazil) can play toe-to-toe with the Americans. Thanks for following along with us today, and enjoy the England-Germany game in about an hour. The whistle blows after a thrilling finish. 90 mins +4: A cross finds Le Sommer at the far post with a difficult angle, and she can\u2019t quite direct it on goal. 90 mins +3: Free kick for France, 45 yards out. Le Sommer gets a shot, France appeals for handball, and a follow-up shot is deflected to Naeher as the ref whistles for offside. 90 mins +2: Press cleverly wins a throw-in deep on the left wing. The U.S. attackers play the ball around the box but can\u2019t get a decent shot, and France strips the ball from Morgan. 90 mins: The corner comes to little, the USA play it all the way back to Naeher to prevent a counter, and then Le Sommer catches Dahlkemper with a leg to the stomach. YELLOW CARD We\u2019ll play four more minutes. 89 mins: Press gets the ball deep on the left side and pops it into the air, where an exhausted Morgan can\u2019t quite get it. But the USA win ... wait for it ... another corner kick. 85 mins: Bouhaddi comes out to snag a high cross from O\u2019Hara. Then Dunn joins an attack that quickly fizzles, but the USA is back to defend. SUBSTITUTION: At last, France changes its lineup. Kadidiatou Diani replaces Gauvin, who nearly gave France the lead a couple of minutes ago. 82 mins: CHANCES. And as I type that, Asseyi finds space past Dunn and slips the ball to Gauvin, who elicits a top-class save from Naeher. And the U.S. keeper comes up big again when the corner kick skims across to the far post, where Henry takes a close-range rip. 81 mins: After the corner, France\u2019s Amandine Henry hands the ball over to McCaskill, whose cross hangs in the air and is cleared for ... another corner. Maybe France should consider one of these new-fangled \u201csubstitution\u201d things. 79 mins: Alex Morgan tries to slip the ball to Press but slips herself. She gets up gingerly. Maybe not the best idea to play her the full 90 today. Williams wins yet another corner for the USA. 76 mins: So it appears Crystal Dunn, a defender in college and in her first NWSL years but an energetic, skillful attacker since then, is now at left back. Not sure why we\u2019re not seeing Sofia Huerta, who is being converted to defense. 75 mins: The stretcher comes out for Casey Short. She stands up, then hops on one foot to get in good position to be carried off the field. SUBSTITUTION: And it\u2019s the forward Christen Press. What in the world kind of shape is the USA using now? 74 mins: No, I haven\u2019t been forgetting to report French substitutions. They haven\u2019t made any. Now the USA may need to make its last sub. Casey Short rolls her ankle. 72 mins: Oh my. Do we have VAR here? The ever-dangerous Pugh gets the ball in the box and falls to the ground as she plays the ball out. Replay shows ... Pugh actually went down a little too easily. SUBSTITUTIONS: And it\u2019s an embarrassment of riches here, with Carli Lloyd and Crystal Dunn coming in for Pugh and Andi Sullivan. 71 mins: Pugh wins another corner, this time on the left flank. McCaskill plays it to the middle for Morgan, who plays it backward. They try to play it back up the field, only to be caught offside. 70 mins: Alex Morgan goes 1-on-2 and goes nowhere. 67 mins: O\u2019Hara, one of the wingbacks spending very little time in her own half of the field, wins another corner kick. McCaskill whips it into the box for Morgan, whose header is easily corraled. And Morgan stays down for a bit. (Mallory Pugh, incidentally, has recovered and is still playing well.) O\u2019Hara doesn\u2019t take kindly to France not playing the ball out, so she slides through a French attacker to stop play herself. She is surprisingly not given a card. And France gets its second shot on goal with a clever play. Le Sommer runs over the ball and into the box, and Majri sets her up with a short pass. But Le Sommer\u2019s shot isn\u2019t struck well, and Alyssa Naeher catches it with ease. 65 mins: Julie Foudy makes a good tactical observation -- with Andi Sullivan dropping back to play a de facto central defender, the U.S. midfield is outnumbered. The wing backs are too far out to provide any useful link to the masses of forwards and attacking mids. When they can get the ball forward, the attacking play is promising. 63 mins: It\u2019s not a bad U.S. attack at the moment, with some clever interchanges. They are indeed trying to play the ball a bit more patiently now, and they\u2019re just a touch or two away. Alex Morgan pounces on an errant clearance to shoot from the top of the box, but it\u2019s blocked. 61 mins: From a free kick and now from the run of play, France has created a good chance to Alyssa Naeher\u2019s right with a diagonal ball. Removing Taylor Smith apparently didn\u2019t solve whatever problem Jill Ellis saw. 59 mins: Morgan Brian, who plays in France with Lyon, swoops back to take the ball away after a giveaway by Andi Sullivan. Sullivan is nominally a central midfielder but has been dropping back while the U.S. defenders go elsewhere -- up the flanks, perhaps up in the booth with the U.S. women\u2019s hockey team, etc. 57 mins: The stereotype says American players are athletes and Europeans are soccer players. But the French team is certainly holding its own physically against the USA here. Le Sommer shugs off a hold at midfield and works the ball forward, where the French eventually win a corner off a panicked clearance by Casey Short. 54 mins: Another big play by Tierna Davidson to break up a French attack. The 19-year-old defender is still in college at Stanford, but she\u2019s playing with a pro\u2019s poise here and possibly making a statement to be the starter alongside Becky Sauerbrunn in the future. 51 mins: There\u2019s Mallory Pugh. She\u2019s out on the left now, and Ga\u00ebtane Thiney takes a chunk out of her leg with a rash challenge. Why that\u2019s not a yellow card, I have no idea. She\u2019s down. And still down. 50 mins: So Lynn Williams has taken up the attack on the right flank for now (not sure where Mallory Pugh went). She wins a corner that Savannah McCaskill will take. The ball finds Morgan Brian, who is trying to win her way back into the U.S. lineup after some injury issues and puts the ball over the bar. 48 mins: France make little of a corner kick. Then Casey Short gets the better of a duel with Le Sommer. No idea what\u2019s happening now because ESPN is focusing on two members of the gold-medalist women\u2019s hockey team visiting the broadcast booth. 46 mins: SUBSTITUTIONS ... USA: Lynn Williams replaces Lindsey Horan USA: Savannah McCaskill replaces Megan Rapinoe We\u2019ll try to figure out the shape at some point. Perhaps the worst news from the U.S. perspective is the tendency to rely on long passes from the back. The substitution is still a puzzler unless Taylor Smith was carrying an injury we don\u2019t know about. She certainly wasn\u2019t playing badly. If the USA wanted to make a panic substitution on the back line just before halftime, you\u2019d think they would withdraw Abby Dahlkemper, who was beaten on the French goal and hasn\u2019t had as much impact as fellow center back Tierna Davidson. Again -- this team misses Becky Sauerbrunn. But they\u2019re showing off their versatility. Kelley O\u2019Hara, who can play anywhere in the field, moved from left to right back, with substitute Casey Short assuming the watch on the left. Put another way ... A few flurries of interest, and France have to feel much better about bouncing back from their game against England. (That, or the USA must be living in terror of their upcoming game against England.) 45 mins: The AR puts up a flag to draw attention to Mallory Pugh being dumped to the ground. Rapinoe lines up a free kick from 30 yards out. France decides to play it with no defenders in the box. It works. 42 mins: SUBSTITUTION on the way, with U.S. defender Casey Short coming in to replace Taylor Smith for some reason. Smith has been strong at the back and an occasional threat going forward. Play continues, though, with France again getting with 12 yards of the U.S. goal. 41 mins: This is your reminder that Becky Sauerbrunn, whose name keeps eluding FIFA voter for major awards, is not in the U.S. lineup today as she recovers from a \u201cstress reaction\u201d in her left foot. Meanwhile, Taylor Smith cleans up to Naeher\u2019s right. The French start simply got a step on Dahlkemper and rounded Naeher. 37 mins: CHANCE. Well, this got interesting. Valerie Gauvin nearly made Alyssa Naeher pay for her tendency to leave the line, getting in the box and chipping the ball up and over the misplaced U.S. keeper. To Naeher\u2019s relief, it lands on top of the bar. After some delay from the yellow card, Megan Rapinoe plays a free kick toward the near post, where maybe 10 players are gathered. It pings around off players and post before Pugh gets a foot to it. Bouhaddi gets a solid hand to it, but it\u2019s a long way to the far post, and the ball spins gently inside it. Pugh now has both shots on goal in this game. The first was very early. 33 mins: YELLOW CARD - Again drawn by O\u2019Hara, as the U.S. left back gets past Marion Torrent a few yards outside the box and Torrent responds with a grab. 31 mins: CHANCE, and it\u2019s squandered by Mallory Pugh after a sustained U.S. possession and a deft short pass from Alex Morgan. No test for Bouhaddi. YELLOW CARD: Viviane Asseyi slides too late to get the ball and instead gets Kelley O\u2019Hara. 29 mins: Alex Morgan finds Mallory Pugh on the right flank, and the young winger takes the ball from the midfield stripe to the end line, searching in vain for a way past A\u00efssatou Tounkara. 28 mins: Nearly a lapse for the U.S. defense. A clearance attempt gets plenty of height but no distance, and France quickly play the ball into the box, where an alert Kelley O\u2019Hara springs into action and whisks the ball from danger. 27 mins: The USA remain strangely attached to these 40-yard passes from their own half. France\u2019s defenders have been up to the challenge thus far. 25 mins: Adventure for Alyssa Naeher, the No. 1 U.S. goalkeeper (we\u2019re assuming that from the fact that she\u2019s the only one who ever plays). She runs out of the box into a group of players and knocks the ball up the field, grimacing a bit as she gets up and returns to her post. 24 mins: The USA rev up the high press, with Rapinoe buzzing around several defenders. France respond with a ball over the top to Le Sommer, who has no defenders near her. Nor, unfortunately, does she have any defenders in front of her. She\u2019s several yards offside. Meters, even. 21 mins: Finally a tiny bit of possession for the USA in the French box, but Mallory Pugh is dispossessed by a pair of defenders. They try again on the left flank, but Lindsey Horan impulsively whacks a ball that skitters across the field for a throw-in. 18 mins: CHANCE at the other end. Young American defender Tierna Davidson has to slide to break up a promising low cross. These chances might get both teams going a bit. The ball is moving much more than the players, like some sort of tentative Subbuteo clash. 17 mins: CHANCE. Sort of. After the teams trade hopeful balls forward, the ball goes wide to ... well, possibly meant for O\u2019Hara, but Rapinoe is also there, and she plays it nicely into the path of Alex Morgan. Morgan puts the ball in the net, but the whistle had gone. She was a foot or so offside. 14 mins: France returns to their right flank, challenging Kelley O\u2019Hara, a versatile player who loves to wander forward. They find some space and win a corner that\u2019s headed wide. Encouraging start for France, as if you haven\u2019t noticed. 12 mins: Can France punish the USA for sending its flank defenders forward? They\u2019re trying, with a good ball down the left to force right back Taylor Smith to recover. The cross doesn\u2019t get the job done. 9 mins: France with sustained possession on the right flank. This is looking more like the tactically and technically sound French team we would expect. The USA are evolving ... That lineup: 1-Alyssa Naeher; 4-Becky Sauerbrunn, 20-Allie Long, 7-Casey Short; 16-Rose Lavelle (2-Mallory Pugh, 46), 3-Samantha Mewis (9-Lindsey Horan, 70), 6-Morgan Brian (8-Julie Johnston, 70), 17-Tobin Heath, 10-Carli Lloyd (capt.) (5-Kelley O\u2019Hara, 78); 12-Lynn Williams (13-Alex Morgan, 70), 23-Christen Press (19-Crystal Dunn, 46) 6 mins: End-to-end. No chances. But then the USA tests the reconfigured French defense, with Taylor Smith marauding up the right flank and crossing toward Morgan, where Bouhaddi and her defenders don\u2019t handle it convincingly. 4 mins: Alex Morgan tangles with Aissatou Tounkara to the referee\u2019s disapproval. Eugenie Le Sommer does the same to Abby Dahlkemper at the other end. And both keepers make a play outside their respective boxes. Curious start here. It\u2019s as if they\u2019re making up for all the long balls they couldn\u2019t play in the wind a few days ago. 2 mins: France shows some intent early. Thiney\u2019s through ball to Gauvin is just a hair too long. The USA responds with some direct play -- Tierna Davidson blasts it forward for Mallory Pugh, who blasts it on goal for an easy save. 1 min: France kicks off and blasts the ball down the right wing. It appears the ad break is over. ESPN commentator Ian Darke (yes, dear folks from across the pond, we\u2019re still borrowing him) is showing pictures from his treacherous trip from Columbus to New York through the snow. Darke and Julie Foudy attribute the Ertz and Lloyd absences in the starting XI to nagging minor injuries rather than the utterly sensible idea of rotating your squad through what\u2019s essentially a friendly. Revenge on the mind: A reminder of what went down 362 days ago with your commentator in attendance, a 3-0 win for France. Ellis doesn\u2019t use the 3-5-2 any more. Get in touch: As Oklahoma celebrates its apparent come-from-behind win in the national cheerleading competition in the lead-in to our game on ESPN2, a quick reminder that you can reach me by email at beau.dure.freelance@theguardian.com or share your thoughts @duresport In case you were wondering what one of England\u2019s brightest women\u2019s soccer minds is doing over here in the States ... Last night, Annapolis, Md. (Washington Capitals vs. Toronto Maple Leafs, outdoors at the U.S. Naval Academy\u2019s football stadium). Today, Harrison, N.J. Busy time for women\u2019s hockey gold medalists: Starting XI for the USA ... 1-Alyssa Naeher, 3-Andi Sullivan, 5-Kelley O\u2019Hara, 6-Morgan Brian, 7-Abby Dahlkemper, 9-Lindsey Horan, 11-Mallory Pugh, 13-Alex Morgan (capt.), 15-Megan Rapinoe, 17-Tierna Davidson, 22-Taylor Smith So the tradition / mistake of playing one and only one goalkeeper ad infinitum, firmly established during the Hope Solo era, continues here. The only changes are in midfield, with phenom Andi Sullivan and Morgan Brian replacing the cornerstone Julie Ertz and big-goal scorer Carli Lloyd. Coach Jill Ellis has opted for the rarely seen 5-6 formation: Starting XI for France, from U.S. Soccer\u2019s email ... 16-Sarah Bouhaddi, 2-A\u00efssatou Tounkara, 6-Amandine Henry (capt.), 7-Amel Majri, 9-Eug\u00e9nie Le Sommer, 12-Ga\u00ebtane Thiney, 13-Val\u00e9rie Gauvin, 17-Marion Torrent, 18-Viviane Asseyi, 19-Griedge Mbock Bathy, 23-Grace Geyoro In graphical form: That\u2019s a change in goal, with Bouhaddi replacing Karima Benameur. And several more. Here\u2019s the lineup from the unfortunate game vs. England: 1-Karima Benameur, 3-Eve Perisset, 19-Griedge Mbock Bathy, 4-Laura Georges, 22-Sakina Karchaoui; 10-Aminata Diallo; 9-Eug\u00e9nie Le Sommer, 14-Faustine Robert (12-Ga\u00ebtane Thiney, 61), 6-Amandine Henry (capt.), 20-Kadidiatou Diani (18-Viviane Asseyi, 61), 11-Ouleymata Sarr (13-Val\u00e9rie Gauvin, 74). How many of those changes are simply a planned rotation in a busy stretch of games? And how many are a reaction to the catastrophe vs. England? Je ne sais pas. Weather check: The winds that rocked Columbus for our opening games moved on to the Northeast, where they spent roughly 48 hours picking up tree branches and hurling them at power lines and houses. Such nastiness has passed. Mostly. The good folks at Red Bull Arena just outside New York City should have a typical March day -- cool but not frigid, windy but not ridiculously so. Good morning, America, how are you? And good afternoon to those of you checking in from Europe to see how the French team is doing, and good middle-of-the-night to those of you in Japan checking out the competition for next year\u2019s Women\u2019s World Cup. The first games of the SheBelieves Cup took place Thursday in heavy wind gusts that certainly affected play. We might not be able to read too much into the USA\u2019s win over Germany, where a lot of balls played in the air dropped like lawn darts. The U.S. women looked competent, given the circumstances. France did not. Now we\u2019ll see whether that was a one-game aberration in which they forgot how to play defense or a sign of something worse. Beau will be here shortly. In the meantime, here\u2019s how France got on in their opener: Phil Neville\u2019s reign as England Women\u2019s manager got off to a successful start with a 4-1 demolition of France and a performance that was brimming with attacking intent and purpose. This mightily impressive display was only a start \u2013 acid tests against Germany and the United States follow in the remaining games of the SheBelieves tournament. Then the real work of preparing for an assault on the World Cup begins in earnest. \u201cI was a little bit nervous before the game, I had a few butterflies, but my players didn\u2019t. That\u2019s the most important thing,\u201d said Neville. \u201cThere is great expectation and I love that expectation. On the bus, on the way to the ground, it felt right. It felt right standing in the technical area and the most important thing is the players are enjoying the raised expectations and the higher profile.\u201d"
"3||Former Rohingya MP, Aung Zaw Win, arrested in MyanmarA former Rohingya MP has been arrested in Myanmar, in move that has been condemned as a further escalation of the attacks on the Rohingya community. Aung Zaw Win, a major property tycoon and former MP for the Union Solidarity and Development party, was arrested at Yangon international airport on Wednesday as he was about to leave on a business trip to Bangkok. A government statement said he has been accused of financing the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army, the Rohingya military group. Aung Zaw Win remains in custody in Mingaladon police station, near Yangon airport, but despite being held for five days has undergone no questioning. Rohingya activist Nay San Lwin said \u201cthe government and military [is] sending a signal to all of the Rohingya living and working in Yangon that they are also under threat, that they want to destroy the whole Rohingya community, not just those in Rahkine\u201d. Since August 2017, thousands of Rohingya have been killed and more than 700,000 fled to neighbouring Bangladesh after a military-led campaign of violence which Yanghee Lee, the UN special rapporteur for human rights in Myanmar, recently said had the \u201challmarks of genocide\u201d. Aung Zaw Win is one of the most prominent Rohingya businessmen in Myanmar, with a vast property empire which includes hotels in Yangon and and Naypyidaw, as well as numerous construction companies. He was also MP for Maungdaw in Rahkine until 2015. Mark Farmaner, director of Burma Campaign UK, said: \u201cIt\u2019s extremely worrying that he has been arrested like this. This is just how the old military dictatorship acted.\u201d Aung Zaw Win\u2019s arrest has come as a surprise to many, for he is well known for his close ties to the military and is a divisive figure among the Rohingya. His involvement in politics was mainly for business purposes and he steered clear of making any political statement regarding the plight of the Rohingya in Myanmar. As an MP he was even among those who pressured the Rohingya community to accept Bengali identity, a proposal which reinforced the idea that they are not native to Myanmar but immigrants from Bangladesh. Nay San Lwin said that the timing of the arrest, against the backdrop of the attacks against the Rohingya, was \u201ca clear threat to all the Rohingya in Yangon. That no one is safe from arrest, even if you have big business or are close links to the military.\u201d He said it was \u201cextremely unlikely\u201d that Aung Zaw Win was involved in funding ARSA because \u201che has never been an activist and as a businessman with billions in property, he would never engage in this kind of activity \u2013 he only cared about his business\u201d. Some have controversially suggested that ARSA was in fact a proxy of the Myanmar military, created to give them a legitimate reason to step up their attacks on the Rohingya. \u201cHe is the military\u2019s man and if he did finance ARSA, it\u2019s my view it would only have been because of pressure from them,\u201d added Nay San Lwin. Another source who preferred to be unnamed for security reasons, echoed the view that \u201caverage Rohingya have long distrusted [Aung Zaw Win]. Many believe he\u2019s connected to the military, and some believe he was instrumental in fomenting violence in 2012, after which he was rewarded land in Yangon and Naypyidaw. \u201cSome believe he worked with the military to create and instigate Al Yaqin [ARSA], creating the conditions for a military takedown of all civilians. And now they\u2019re taking him down.\u201d"
"10||Putin: Russia will 'never' extradite 13 nationals indicted by MuellerRussia will \u201cnever\u201d extradite any of its 13 nationals indicted last month by special counsel Robert Mueller for interfering in the 2016 US election, Vladimir Putin said, even as he insisted they did not act on behalf of his government. Putin spoke in a second interview with Megyn Kelly of NBC, due to air in the US on Sunday and trailed extensively this week. Kelly, formerly of Fox News, first interviewed the Russian president in June 2017. In that interview, the Russian president denied that his government holds any compromising material on Donald Trump. The existence or not of such \u201ckompromat\u201d is one strand of Mueller\u2019s investigation into Russian interference, which US intelligence agencies agree aimed to sway the election in Trump\u2019s favour. Mueller is also looking into alleged collusion between Trump aides and Moscow and has indicted four former staffers: national security adviser Michael Flynn, foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos, campaign manager Paul Manafort and his deputy, Rick Gates. Flynn, Papadopoulos and Gates have entered plea deals in return for cooperation. Manafort maintains his innocence on charges including money laundering and tax and bank fraud. Trump has denied any collusion between his aides and the Kremlin, calling the investigations a \u201cwitch-hunt\u201d. Mueller indicted the 13 Russians last month, alleging they \u201ccommunicated with unwitting individuals associated with the Trump campaign\u201d. Putin\u2019s defiant answer to Kelly illustrated the long odds that the 13 will ever appear in US court to answer charges of running a massive, secret social media trolling and targeted messaging operation. The US has no extradition treaty with Moscow. A provision in Russia\u2019s constitution prohibits extraditing its citizens. \u201cNever,\u201d Putin told Kelly. \u201cNever. Russia does not extradite its citizens to anyone.\u201d The justice department has long supported indicting foreigners, to make it harder for them to travel. Legal experts have said Mueller\u2019s indictment served to increase public awareness. The 37-page document alleges that Russians working for the Internet Research Agency used fake social media accounts and on-the-ground political organizing to exacerbate divisive US issues. Posing as Americans, they purchased space on US computer servers and used US email providers. Putin said his government would have little to answer for until the US provides \u201csome materials, specifics and data\u201d. Russia would be \u201cprepared to look at them and talk about it\u201d, he said, repeating his insistence that his government had no role in directing the operatives. \u201cI know that they do not represent the Russian state, the Russian authorities,\u201d Putin said. \u201cWhat they did specifically, I have no idea.\u201d Barack Obama\u2019s chief of staff, meanwhile, told NBC\u2019s Meet the Press that the Republican Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, had been responsible for weakening the White House response to the Russian meddling as it was occurring. \u201cThe president asked the four [congressional party] leaders in a bipartisan meeting in the Oval Office to join him in asking the states to work with us on this question,\u201d Denis McDonough said. \u201cIt took over three weeks to get that statement worked out. It was dramatically watered down.\u201d Asked if that was done to satisfy McConnell, McDonough said: \u201cYes.\u201d Trump has also been criticised for not doing enough to tackle Russian interference. On Tuesday, Adm Mike Rogers, chief of the National Security Agency, told a Senate committee the president had not authorised him to counter Russian cyber-attacks. \u201cClearly,\u201d he said, \u201cwhat we\u2019ve done hasn\u2019t been enough.\u201d"
"6||Joe Simmonds\u2019 early flurry kickstarts Exeter\u2019s win over depleted SaracensIt has been a wintry week in the south-west but here was something to warm local hearts. As well as securing a home-and-away double over Saracens in the Premiership this season, Exeter sit seven points clear at the top of the table, a home play-off semi-final increasingly within their reach. This was also an encouraging outcome for Eddie Jones, with Sam Simmonds and Henry Slade returning from injury layoffs before England\u2019s Six Nations trip to France on Saturday. It proved an excellent day for the Simmonds family all round, with 12 points from the boot of the 21-year-old Exeter fly\u2011half Joe helping to swing a hard-fought contest. Victory was a fitting reward for the snow-clearing efforts of dozens of staff \u2013 from the chairman, Tony Rowe, downwards \u2013 the kick-off having been postponed for 24 hours to ensure the pitch was playable. Considering the recent weather the surface was in remarkably good nick; so, when it mattered most, were Exeter. With five regular-season games left, their director of rugby, Rob Baxter, acknowledged that securing top spot is now \u201cin our hands\u201d. If they have been helped somewhat by facing Saracens twice during international windows, there was no doubting the strength of Exeter\u2019s second-half display against the wind, nor the turbo boost supplied by their bench. Sam Simmonds did not remotely look like a man who has been sidelined since injuring a shoulder against Wales last month, while Slade is once again displaying the kind of class England\u2019s midfield has been crying out for. At least Saracens could console themselves with the spirit they displayed. No fewer than 18 squad members were unavailable because of injury or international duty \u2013 although they still turned up with Test players occupying two-thirds of their starting XV. Slowing Exeter\u2019s momentum was clearly a priority and their defensive line speed suggested a team stung into renewed action by their home defeat to Leicester a week earlier last weekend. Even so, the Chiefs enjoyed the bulk of possession and territory in both halves and might have won more easily had they taken full advantage of the breeze at their backs in the first 40 minutes. Despite a trio of penalties from Joe Simmonds, starting at fly-half to allow Gareth Steenson some rare respite, it was the visitors who scored the first try, Brad Barritt and Marcelo Bosch combining to send the highly promising flanker Ben Earl bursting past a wrong-footed Olly Woodburn. Saracens might already have scored had Chris Wyles not put a foot on the touchline before touching down in the left corner. The Chiefs suddenly needed to get a grip. Eleven purposeful attacking phases duly stretched the cover enough to put a flying Phil Dollman over at the other end, with the replacement prop Alec Hepburn involved three times in the buildup. There was still time before the interval for the visitors to catch out Exeter again, Schalk Brits burrowing beneath a pile of bodies to complete a successful lineout drive. The Saracens\u2019 captain, Barritt, failed to emerge for the second half and the similarly experienced Wyles also had to be replaced two minutes after the restart, propelling the youthful Max Malins and Rotimi Segun into the firing line. The Chiefs, in contrast, possessed a seasoned bench and the arrival of the visibly energised Sam Simmonds always felt like a potential turning point. So it proved, a fourth penalty from his brother extending the hosts\u2019 lead before a series of one-sided attacking scrums saw an inevitable penalty try awarded. With only Jack Nowell and Harry Williams of Exeter\u2019s England contingent unavailable, the Saracens\u2019 director of rugby, Mark McCall, can only hope the return of Owen Farrell, Maro Itoje et al alters the equation should these sides meet again in May. \u201cI genuinely think Premiership Rugby are trying not to put us against teams in these periods who don\u2019t lose as many international players,\u201d McCall said. \u201cWe were just unfortunate today Sam Simmonds and Henry Slade were both coming back from injury. We had a few more people away on international duty than they did.\u201d Despite resources being seriously stretched, he opted not to pick Wales\u2019s Liam Williams and Scotland\u2019s Sean Maitland (\u201cIt makes no sense to us to expose them to continuous rugby at this time of year\u201d) with an eye on the \u201cbigger picture\u201d of Saracens\u2019 European quarter-final against Leinster on Easter Sunday."
"6||Wakefield keep up 100% record as Ben Jones-Bishop sinks HuddersfieldFor the first time since 1945, Wakefield Trinity have won their opening four league games in the top flight as they continue to suggest they could be an unlikely force this season. This latest victory, a hard-earned effort against Huddersfield, perhaps best justified the pre-season belief some had that Trinity \u2013 perennially one of the strugglers \u2013 may be Super League title contenders this season. They remain one of only two sides, alongside the favourites St Helens, who remain unbeaten after the first month. The critics will point out that Wakefield\u2019s opening fixtures have been against the so-called weaker sides. That may or may not be true but in winning four games they have shown a resolve so often seen in sides who can last the distance throughout the course of a season. For large periods of this ferocious Yorkshire derby, the hosts were put under enormous pressure by Huddersfield. The old Wakefield would have buckled but not this team. After coming so close to a top-four finish in 2017, there was a suspicion Wakefield could challenge the game\u2019s elite this time, despite being one of the lowest spenders in the competition. How far they have come will be put to the test on Sunday at Wigan but Wakefield will head across the Pennines confident. \u201cIt\u2019ll be a different kettle of fish but if we turn up with that desire and attitude, we\u2019re a force to be reckoned with,\u201d their coach, Chris Chester, said. Defence was the backbone of this latest performance, with Lee Gaskell\u2019s try five minutes before half-time all Huddersfield could muster. Ben Jones\u2011Bishop\u2019s try, coupled with a Liam Finn goal, had put Wakefield ahead before a decisive passage of play after half-time. In 14 second\u2011half minutes Huddersfield conceded seven consecutive penalties, with the final one in that sequence seeing Kruise Leeming sent to the sin-bin. Finn had kicked two penalties before, with their man advantage, Trinity went further ahead when a Finn kick found Jones-Bishop unmarked in the corner. The Ireland international converted \u2013 just as he did two minutes from time when Mason Caton-Brown scored to seal Wakefield\u2019s unbeaten start."
"3||Angry, fed-up Italians turn away from mainstream partiesItalians casting their votes in Sunday\u2019s general election were united in only one respect: they were angry and fed-up. The country has come a long way since it was rocked by a severe economic downturn in 2011 but voters went into the polling booths with plenty of worries \u2013 that the political class is out of touch, that there are too few good jobs, that corruption is rife and there are no good solutions to a seemingly endless migration crisis without much help from Europe. The main party leaders have offered little inspiration for the disillusioned. Luigi Di Maio a 31-year-old maverick whose most recent job experience includes being a waiter, leads Italy\u2019s most popular single party, the Five Star Movement (M5S), which had, until recently, refused to consider working with other parties in coalition. The former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi, an 81-year-old who has won three previous elections and was forced out of office in disrepute, heads the centre-right party Forza Italia, whose far-right allies are predicted to emerge as the largest bloc in parliament but fall short of a majority. They include La Lega, led by Matteo Salvini, the 44-year-old xenophobe who has sought to exploit the migrant crisis for political advantage. \u201cI\u2019m going to vote for the \u2018least worst\u2019,\u201d said Simona, a 42-year-old bookseller in Palermo. \u201cThat\u2019s what Italians have been doing for years; we have just voted to avoid catastrophes.\u201d Sicily is a key electoral battleground. While the region used to be a stronghold for Berlusconi, it has recently shown strong support for M5S, which has appealed to voters with its anti-establishment, Eurosceptic and anti-corruption message. For Caterina, a 62-year-old house cleaner, one choice does not seem much better than the other. \u201cI\u2019m just going to vote because is my civic duty. But I don\u2019t have any hopes in these guys in Rome. They are all the same,\u201d she said. In Orvieto, a town in Umbria, in central Italy, which was a communist stronghold for years, Marcello Mencarelli, 76, decided to back Lega\u2019s Salvini, who has vowed to toughen asylum rules and to begin mass deportations of hundreds of thousands of migrants found to be in Italy illegally. It is not a plan that is considered realistic, but Salvini \u2013 who campaigned as part of the centre right coalition headed by Berlusconi \u2013 set the tone on the immigration debate in the election campaign. \u201cI\u2019m voting for Salvini\u2019s Lega because he promises to get rid of all the illegal immigrants,\u201d said Mencarelli, who has previously voted for Berlusconi\u2019s Forza Italia and the Christian Democrats. But, revealing the complexity of the issue, and many Italians\u2019 unease with Salvini\u2019s fiery and often racist rhetoric, Mencarelli\u2019s good friend Mario, a staunch communist, has backed Free and Equal, a left-wing splinter group formed by Pietro Grasso, a former Democratic party speaker of the senate who has been likened to Jeremy Corbyn. \u201cWe need a left-wing government,\u201d he insisted. \u201cThe way the right wing exploits immigration is vulgar.\u201d La Lega, formerly known as the Northern League, has even began to win support in southern Italy during the campaign, despite the fact that the once secessionist party used to cast all southern Italians as lazy and drags on the rest of the country. However, Salvini\u2019s Euroscepticism and his views against migrants are starting to resonate among some in Sicily. \u201cI tell you the truth, I\u2019m Sicilian and have voted for Salvini,\u201d said Daniel Silvestri, 25, a tourist entertainer. \u201cI\u2019m tired of all the lies of politicians in the last years. Only a shock can lead to a change.\u201d Sandro, who declined to give his surname, and his wife waited for more than two hours to cast their votes. \u201cIt\u2019s so badly organised I\u2019m convinced it\u2019s a ploy to make us walk away from voting,\u201d he said. He declined to reveal who he voted for but said: \u201cNone of the contenders are experienced enough to run a government, maybe it\u2019s time to try the young ones.\u201d"
"12||The Guardian view on charity: don\u2019t turn awayThe British public has a deep social contract with charities, which makes a real difference for the world\u2019s poor, averting famine in Somalia last year. As the international development secretary, Penny Mordaunt, noted: \u201cThe poorest in our own nation are giving generously to others less fortunate than themselves, time after time.\u201d But since the Harvey Weinstein scandal in Hollywood, disturbing revelations of sexual abuse have swept through politics, business and now the aid sector. Some of the biggest names in development have been hit by allegations of sexual misconduct, at home and abroad. The succession of scandals requires immediate and concrete action to restore trust in two areas: the protection of vulnerable people, and evidence that aid makes a difference. It is clear that when dealing with traumatised, impoverished and often uprooted people, the duty to protect lies with aid agencies. Every British charity that recruits people to work abroad should be held, by law, to the same standard as agencies working with vulnerable people at home. This would require a vetting system, like the one for UK schools, to be put in place for aid workers that could screen potential recruits for previous complaints of sexual abuse. A global industry needs a global system of checks; an agency like Interpol could oversee such a system. This would help keep high-risk predatory men out of the charitable sector. Last week Kevin Watkins, Save the Children\u2019s CEO, warned that the current crisis of trust experienced by charities is comparable to that of the 2008 financial crisis, which eroded confidence and destroyed institutions. To regain trust charities will have to move beyond simplistic slogans about \u201cmaking poverty history\u201d. Development\u2019s next challenge is to expand the freedom that poor people have and the real choices they are able to make. Not all inequality is a constraint on freedom. But the extreme inequalities of wealth and of opportunity across so many countries are barriers to human development. Charities need to show, with evidence, that aid is making a difference in this regard, else the British public will lose faith in the sector. Charities\u2019 power is not in glitzy events with celebrities or getting a line into a G8 communique \u2013 it is providing a connection between the UK public and people at the sharp end of globalisation. Today, we have a near-instant awareness of suffering, and the public does respond. The aid sector is a conduit for compassion and human solidarity. It is still the case that carnage proceeds in many parts of the globe and the world does nothing. Sometimes this inaction is because intervention \u2013 especially military action \u2013 is a cure worse than the disease. Sometimes it is that our attention and resolve is arbitrary and pinched. However, empathy has to underpin our own security in an interconnected world. This understanding is relatively new. More than two centuries ago, Adam Smith made the case that compassion for others was too unreliable to be relied upon. He wrote that if \u201ca man of humanity\u201d knew he would lose his little finger tomorrow, \u201che would not sleep tonight; but, provided he never saw them, he will snore with the more profound security over the ruin of a hundred millions of his brethren\u201d in an earthquake that entirely destroyed the whole of China. Technology means that we now see our brethren. The appalling disclosures of the last few weeks ought not make us turn away."
"12||The Guardian view on cycling and the law: good manners neededHard cases make bad law. The tragic \u2013 genuinely tragic \u2013 death of Kim Briggs, a pedestrian in London who was hit by a cyclist as she crossed a busy road, and died of her injuries, has now led to the proposed introduction of an offence of causing death by dangerous cycling, to match the existing offence of causing death by dangerous driving. As the law then stood, Charlie Alliston, then 18, who killed Ms Briggs, could only be charged under a Victorian statute, even though it was argued that by riding a bike which had only a back brake he was not only breaking the law, but doing so with a culpable disregard for the safety of other road users. Both the case and the resulting proposed law highlight the extent to which cycling has become a front in the culture wars. The bicycle started off as a symbol of liberation at the end of the 19th century. It allowed young people \u2013 especially young women \u2013 an astonishing degree of freedom and autonomy. In the mid-20th century it became a symbol of honest, unpretentious transport for anyone who could not afford a car. Mrs Thatcher\u2019s grim employment secretary, Norman Tebbit, used the example of his father \u201cWho got on his bike and looked for work\u201d as a way to damn slackers and scroungers. Forty years later, the meaning has changed again and the bike is associated with everything reactionaries believe is wrong with modern Britain. Tebbit senior\u2019s bike would have had a frame of British steel that could batter any potholes which dared argue with it. The only soft part would have been the saddle. The modern carbon-fibre bike has disc brakes, innumerable electrically operated gears and a saddle so advanced it is only comfortable in special padded underwear. It seems to demand a different sort of character. What poisons relations is when one side \u2013 or both \u2013 feels morally superior to the other. Cycling in many parts of many cities is frankly terrifying. Yet there is an important paradox here: cyclists are statistically less likely to be killed on the road than pedestrians, although they are much more likely to be injured in accidents. This is not just proof that the health risks of physical inactivity far outweigh those of cycling (or walking in cities). It also highlights a strange fact about the psychology of cycling, since no one feels especially brave when they set out to walk down the road, even if this carries a 20% higher risk of a fatal accident than cycling does. In Britain, 29.5 cyclists were killed for every billion miles ridden in 2016; 34.5 pedestrians died in accidents for every billion miles walked. Of course, children are trained from an early age that cars are dangerous so that pedestrians have now entirely interiorised their own inferiority relative to cars and feel there is nothing unnatural in their vulnerability. Cycling, by contrast, can be touched with exhilaration. Car driving caters to the same feelings of omnipotence, as any car advertisement on the television shows. But the cyclist in a traffic jam can feel free while the driver is horribly conscious of being imprisoned there. This does not have an improving effect on the character. Anyone familiar with city traffic in Britain will have seen cyclists, as well as car drivers, behaving with disregard for other road users. But when car drivers make mistakes they are still physically safe. It is the cyclist or pedestrian who pays the price for arrogant drivers. Cycling does in fact have all the moral and physical benefits claimed for it but that should not make cyclists the objects of resentment. Some cyclists, however, need to remember their common humanity with the humble pedestrian. \u2022 This article was amended on 5 March 2018 to comply with our style guide on gender issues."
"2||Bernardo Silva secures easy Manchester City victory over tame ChelseaFor once, it did not really feel necessary to go through all the well-worn superlatives that have accompanied Manchester City on their procession to the title. That is 14 successive home wins now in the Premier League. No team have ever racked up so many passes \u2013 902 \u2013 since the league\u2019s inception and Ilkay G\u00fcndogan\u2019s total of 174 was another record for the modern era. Pep Guardiola\u2019s side had won with something to spare and by the time it was all over, with an 18-point gap opening up at the top of the table, it was difficult to remember that it was the players wearing the darker shade of blue who were, in fact, the champions of England. For City, that honour will be theirs in a few weeks \u2013 quite possibly when Manchester United visit here on 7 April \u2013 whereas Chelsea should be embarrassed that those kind of record statistics could happen on their watch. They barely laid a glove on the team that, lest it be forgotten, finished 15 points below them last season and it was startling to see their regression, the ultra-defensive tactics employed by Antonio Conte\u2019s side and, more than anything, the sheer lack of gumption at 1-0 to do anything about it. Chelsea are supposed to be a big club with lofty ambitions, but what does it say for the current team that they were the patsies on the day one of their rivals produced an unprecedented show of keep-ball? The only surprise was Guardiola\u2019s men restricted themselves to Bernardo Silva\u2019s goal 33 seconds into the second half and that, for all the intelligent promptings of Kevin De Bruyne and David Silva and the flowering brilliance of Leroy San\u00e9, they did not make it a more emphatic win. The home side played every sort of pass \u2013 508 in the first half alone \u2013 but there were not too many of the killer variety. This was actually the first time in City\u2019s winning run on their own ground that they have not managed at least two goals, but that seldom felt like an issue when their opponents were so vapid. No team can accumulate the kind of statistics City did here if they were being chased and harried and that, perhaps, was the most alarming aspect for Conte. N\u2019Golo Kant\u00e9 was missing because of a virus and, without their most combative player, it was startling to see the lack of enthusiasm among Chelsea\u2019s players to make a tackle or raise their voices \u2013 anything to show they cared. Chelsea have now lost four of their past five league games and there was a telling moment late on, just before the amount of stoppage time was announced, when Conte withdrew Eden Hazard to bring on \u00c1lvaro Morata, giving the Spaniard all of four minutes to conjure up an equaliser. Hazard walked past his manager without even exchanging a look. Too much can be made of these moments sometimes, but the strained body language was reminiscent of a similar incident involving Hazard and Jos\u00e9 Mourinho, shortly before the Portuguese was sacked from Stamford Bridge in 2015. Conte explained afterwards that he had had to be realistic about City\u2019s superior position and adapt his tactics accordingly. He had a point, but could they not have shown a touch more ambition? It was difficult to think of another side that has visited the Etihad Stadium this season and had so little impact, attacking-wise, and Conte\u2019s analysis did not take into account that City, for all their counter-attacking brilliance, can often leave themselves vulnerable because of the sheer nature of Guardiola\u2019s lineup. City had an attacking midfielder, Oleksandr Zinchenko, at left-back. Kyle Walker is the most forward-thinking right-back in the league and G\u00fcndogan, operating as a holding midfielder, is another whose first instincts are to go forward. The trick for City\u2019s opponents is getting the balance right between defence and attack. Yet Chelsea rarely ventured to find out why City had kept only two clean sheets in their previous nine home games and, among the blizzard of statistics confirming the home side\u2019s superiority, one in particular jumped off the page \u2013 Hazard had only 33 touches of the ball, 18 fewer than Thibaut Courtois, the Chelsea goalkeeper. Chelsea employed the same tactical plan against Barcelona in their Champions League first leg, but it works only if the team defend at their absolute best. Instead, Andreas Christensen\u2019s mistake let in Lionel Messi for Barcelona\u2019s equaliser and, again, the centre-half had to accept a proportion of the blame when City scored the goal that leaves them needing four more wins to confirm the title. When Christensen\u2019s attempted clearance struck one of his own team\u2011mates Sergio Ag\u00fcero was on the ball in a flash. David Silva was overlapping on the left and Bernardo Silva, coming in at the far post, showed more interest to get to the cross than Marcos Alonso, turning his shot into the bottom corner. Chelsea still had plenty of time to save themselves but their problem was getting the ball, and this is the other thing about City that sometimes goes unnoticed: when they do lose the ball they work devilishly hard at getting it back as quickly as possible."
"2||Lionel Messi\u2019s free-kick sends Barcelona eight points clear of Atl\u00e9tico MadridLionel Messi\u2019s 600th goal carried Barcelona closer to his eighth league title with the club. As the ball hit the net the Camp Nou chanted his name. It was early still and there would be nervous moments to overcome, Atl\u00e9tico Madrid refusing to relinquish their challenge without a fight, but he had done it again, as they thought he might. At the end, there was a huge roar here: another big night had the No 10\u2019s signature scrawled across it. \u201cIf Messi had been wearing an Atl\u00e9tico shirt, we would have won,\u201d Diego Simeone, the Atl\u00e9tico manager, said. His opposite number, Ernesto Valverde, said: \u201cThere\u2019s no one like him in the world. I don\u2019t know what would have happened [if he\u2019d been on the other team] nor do I want to imagine it.\u201d The title might be heading elsewhere for a start. A single goal was enough but what a goal it was. The clock showed 26 minutes and the ball was 25 yards from goal, just left of centre as Jan Oblak, the Atl\u00e9tico goalkeeper, looked at it. The problem was that it was one thing seeing it, another stopping it. It was, after all, Messi standing there and he bent the ball in a long, sharp arc towards the top corner, swinging fast. Oblak scrambled across, diving, hand outstretched but could not keep it out. It was the third free-kick Messi had scored in a week, one a game for three games, and his sixth this season. Both are records in La Liga, where Barcelona now have an eight-point lead. \u201cIt\u2019s not definitive but we have taken a step,\u201d Valverde said. Five games ago that lead had been 11 but three draws \u2013 against Espanyol, Getafe, and Las Palmas \u2013 saw it cut to five, the narrowest it had been since Week 6. Since Diego Costa\u2019s arrival at Christmas, Atl\u00e9tico had been relentless, winning eight and drawing one of nine matches, closing in and contenders once more. Even with 11 more games to go this was set up as a title decider but Atl\u00e9tico weren\u2019t not able to win here. When the moment came, declared a decider, Barcelona beat them. \u201cThe best player is with them,\u201d Simeone said. The goal did not come in isolation. The ball had been Barcelona\u2019s, the game played in Atl\u00e9tico\u2019s half. By half time, the visitors had taken a solitary shot \u2013 a long, harmless effort from Thomas Partey. If Barcelona had not created a really clear chance \u2013 assuming that 25-yard free-kicks do not count as clear chances, although with Messi that may need rethinking \u2013 the pressure had built since Andr\u00e9s Iniesta\u2019s early shot deflected wide. Oblak saved from Sergio Busquets, Luis Su\u00e1rez had two efforts blocked and Messi somehow escaped a three-man cage, only for his shot to be under-hit. When it came to the goal, the shot was perfectly hit. Other efforts followed. Philippe Coutinho bent one into Oblak\u2019s arms, then had a shot pushed away, and Gerard Piqu\u00e9 headed over from a corner before the break. Something shifted in the second half, although Barcelona had already looked less assured once Iniesta had been forced off injured. Atl\u00e9tico took a step forward that was announced when Busquets was almost caught four minutes in. They knew they had to go for it and the changes reflected that: Sime Vrsaljko and Gabi were removed early, \u00c1ngel Correa and Kevin Gameiro replacing them and there were still 15 minutes left when Simeone went to three at the back. Barcelona were uncomfortable, particularly Andr\u00e9 Gomes, on for Iniesta. Costa, chasing alongside Samuel Umtiti, had his first shot and Antoine Griezmann sliced over. If the sense of danger was there, it rarely solidified. \u201cThere was nervousness and you always have that feeling but they didn\u2019t make clear chances,\u201d Valverde said. The game opened up and tiredness showed. Barcelona found space to run into if not always the legs to do it. Messi\u2019s shot deflected over and Oblak pushed away from Busquets. At the other end Gameiro had the ball in the net but the flag was up. Su\u00e1rez did the same but he, too, was denied. Messi was not: his moment had decided the game and perhaps the title."
"12||Theresa May has won a truce on Brexit \u2013 but it won\u2019t last longIt\u2019s quiet \u2013 too quiet.\u201d It was, I think, John Wayne who first drawled that line of knowing scepticism, in the 1934 B-movie western The Lucky Texan. But it seems no less apt this week, as the Tory prairie remains suspiciously peaceful in response to Theresa May\u2019s speech on Brexit, delivered at the Mansion House on Friday. True, Michael Heseltine has performed his quasi-constitutional role as lord privy Europhile by dismissing the prime minister\u2019s remarks as no more than \u201cphrases, generalisations and platitudes\u201d. There are reports too of a dirty tricks operation at No 10 to undermine the foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, (vigorously denied all round). Yet the Conservative reaction to the speech has been remarkably cordial. Less than a week ago, it was bellicose business as usual. On the eve of the prime minister\u2019s big speech, John Major declared that \u201cmany electors know they were misled\u201d over Brexit, that \u201cmany more are beginning to realise it\u201d, and: \u201cThe electorate has every right to reconsider their decision.\u201d The reality TV star and occasional MP Nadine Dorries branded Major a traitor for his outrageous suggestion that the public might be consulted again on Britain\u2019s EU departure. And quite right too: this is obviously no time for careful reflection, caution or hard-won wisdom \u2013 the telltale sneaky weapons of \u201csaboteurs\u201d, \u201cenemies of the people\u201d and other foes of the popular will. Yet the gunfire that preceded May\u2019s speech has, for now, fallen almost entirely silent. On the blasted mud of no man\u2019s land, you can see Jacob Rees-Mogg kicking the ball amiably to Anna Soubry, who heads it back to Iain Duncan Smith. Where there was discord, there is, as St Francis of Assisi might observe, a sudden and unexpected harmony. Or so it seems. Why so? First because, of all May\u2019s significant strategic interventions on Brexit to date, this was the crunchiest and most substantial: plunging into the weeds of policy, recognising some of the \u201chard facts\u201d of what lies ahead, and acknowledging that \u201cno one will get everything they want\u201d. Much of what has been obvious but unstated was at last made explicit. There was also something for everyone, which is another way of saying that detail is not the same as decisiveness. For the Brexiteers, there was the repeated guarantee that Britain will leave the single market and customs union; that, in due course, parliament can diverge from EU standards as much as it sees fit; and that May herself will not countenance \u201canything that would damage the integrity\u201d of the UK. On the BBC\u2019s Andrew Marr Show today, she was emphatic that \u201cwe would just be a rule-taker\u201d if \u201cfinancial passporting\u201d \u2013 the special arrangements that allow banks and other City companies to operate across the EU \u2013 were left in place. For remainers, on the other hand, there was the reassurance that Britain will continue to be associated with a host of EU agencies; that May will adopt a practical approach to the future role of the European court of justice; and that, on workers\u2019 rights and other social protections, \u201cWe will not engage in a race to the bottom.\u201d The second driver of the present Tory truce \u2013 though few Conservatives will admit it \u2013 is undoubtedly Jeremy Corbyn\u2019s shift of position last week on Britain\u2019s future relationship with the EU customs union. The Labour leader\u2019s subordination, after much deliberation, of his career-long Eurosceptic instincts to an overtly political strategy has brought home to those Conservative MPs who are paying attention that Corbyn is not just the man who might be propelled into No 10 by Tory incompetence. He really wants the job, and he intends to get it. The Tories are spooked, as well they might be. As an exercise in tactical party management, therefore, May\u2019s speech was a success. But that\u2019s all it was. The Conservative dilemma over Europe is structural rather than specific. It has bedevilled the party for 30 years, destroying its last three prime ministers, and it may yet claim a fourth before too long. Here\u2019s the irony: David Cameron\u2019s referendum gamble was meant to solve the problem once and for all, but it has had the bleak effect of compounding it. The wisdom of his decision remains a matter of fierce debate at Tory tables. But he is not to blame for the deeper tribal pathology, which has been reinforced rather than resolved. One half of the Conservative psyche, well described in an essay by William Davies in the current London Review of Books, is positively drawn to the stoic challenge of Brexit, believing that \u201ctoughness, even pain, performs an important moral and psychological function in pushing people to come up with solutions\u201d. In fundamental tension with this is an alliance of older Tories, who believe in the postwar dream of European harmony, and of pragmatic Conservatives who consider exit from the world\u2019s largest single market and one of its most powerful alliances to be an act of collective self-harm. I think they are right. But that is not the point. The gulf between the two positions \u2013 stoic independence versus practical internationalism \u2013 is ultimately unbridgeable. One must prevail, and the moment of victory and defeat has been deferred, not confronted. There is much political blood left to be shed, as each chapter of the negotiations unfolds. \u201cNow is not the time to nitpick,\u201d wrote Rees-Mogg in Saturday\u2019s Telegraph. But \u2013 by heavy implication \u2013 that time will come again. The prime minister\u2019s speech was a mere sticking plaster on an old and suppurating wound. Enjoy the peace while it lasts, for it will not last long. \u2022 Matthew d\u2019Ancona is a Guardian columnist"
"2||Manchester City 1-0 Chelsea: Premier League \u2013\u00a0as it happenedAnd with that, I\u2019m done. It\u2019s been a blast. Bye! On Sky, Jamie Redknapp describes Chelsea\u2019s performance as \u201ca crime against football\u201d. \u201cI just felt they didn\u2019t really want to play. They\u2019re better than that, much better than that. Chelsea should just have given them the three points before the game started.\u201d The last time a title-winning Chelsea team lost away to the eventual champions, they sacked their title-winning manager. Conte\u2019s departure has seemed inevitable for some time, but his team\u2019s performance here was a particularly miserable reflection of his current standing. \u201cWe played like a team battling relegation, happy with a 1-0 defeat to preserve our goal difference,\u201d writes Lee Madden. On the touchline, Pep Guardiola squeals with delight as the final whistle sounds, and those on the bench launch into a prolonged bout of high-fivery. 90+5 mins: It\u2019s over, and Manchester City are just four wins from the title! 90+4 mins: Nearly! The ball is rather clumsily worked into the area and along its edge, from where Alonso volleys just wide! 90+4 mins: One minute to play. Chelsea have an attacking throw-in and two strikers on the pitch. They couldn\u2019t, surely? 90+2 mins: Sane has a shot from the edge of the area, but it\u2019s high. A final substitution sees David Silva get a standing ovation, and Phil Foden come on. 90+1 mins: Chelsea cross the ball! Alonso centres it from the left, and it\u2019s headed clear by Otamendi. 90+1 mins: There will be four minutes of stoppage time, or thereabouts. 90 mins: City have only had three shots on target, which reflects well on Chelsea. They, however, haven\u2019t had any. 89 mins: Morata finally gets his chance \u2013 about 90 seconds of it \u2013 coming on for Hazard. 88 mins: Suddenly Chelsea are playing with a front three, with Giroud in the middle and Emerson and Hazard on either side. 87 mins: And another City change, Danilo coming on for Zinchenko. 84 mins: Sergio Aguero\u2019s race is run. He peels off his gloves and shoves them, strangely, into his mouth as he comes off, and Gabriel Jesus comes on. 84 mins: Chelsea have a throw-in! Sure, it\u2019s not quite a corner, but it\u2019s near City\u2019s penalty area, and it\u2019s something. Matt Loten disagrees with Matt Case: \u201cAs he notes, selling Costa and Matic was the primary factor behind Chelsea\u2019s decline; neither of those moves were decided by finances,\u201d he writes. \u201cThey were caused by Conte\u2019s poor man-management, and the money they subsequently spent could have augmented the squad quite nicely, but instead they spread it across a number of inadequate squad players, instead of a few top-quality enhancements to an already impressive starting XI. City and Chelsea have swapped places not because of mismatched finances, but because of mismatched transfer policies. City identified their weaknesses and rectified them; Chelsea did not.\u201d 82 mins: Another substitution from Chelsea: Emerson comes on for Pedro. Meanwhile Morata, who was also on the touchline ready to come on, is sent back to the bench. 81 mins: Giroud wins a header! It\u2019s a long ball, and Giroud rises with Otamendi and heads it straight out of play. 81 mins: Fabregas\u2019s corner goes straight to Gundogan, protecting the near post, who clears. 80 mins: Chelsea have a corner! Pedro\u2019s cross is charged down, and a corner kick is theirs! 80 mins: De Bruyne has the ball on the edge of the area, with David Silva and Sane to his left and Aguero to his right. He could and perhaps should have shot, but instead overhits his pass to Aguero and the chance is lost. 79 mins: Chelsea make a change, taking off Willian and bringing on Giroud. 78 mins: The ball is played down the left by Sane, who controls on his chest, turns away from the byline and rides a desperate and poor challenge from an emphatically outfoxed Moses, before crossing to nobody in particular. 76 mins: \u201cIt\u2019s just unacceptable this from Chelsea. Absolutely unacceptable,\u201d rages Gary Neville. David Silva wins the ball in a congested midfield, and instead of trying to take it back again Chelsea\u2019s five and four immediately drop 20 yards further back. Silva, from being surrounded by dark blue shirts, just stands totally still and ends up with nobody anywhere near him. 74 mins: Chelsea keep winning the ball off City on the edge of their area, and then giving it back again almost immediately. 71 mins: This half is very much like the first, only with City no longer needing to score. The idea that Bernardo Silva\u2019s opener would bring Chelsea out of their shell very much underestimated the size of Chelsea\u2019s shell. 68 mins: A lovely pass down the right finds Bernardo Silva, but his cross is overhit. \u201cI think we should be careful about Man City\u2019s dominance,\u201d writes Matt Cast. \u201cLast season Chelsea got the second highest points total in Premier League history with the most wins ever in a Premier League season and a formation that left many opponents baffled. This season they\u2019ve been much less dominant, to say the least, so a lot can change from one season to another. Of course losing Costa and Matic has been crucial and loss of key players is less likely for City, given their finances. This just underlines the fact that Guardiola, De Bruyne etc are not the key factors behind City\u2019s dominance \u2013 it\u2019s the money.\u201d It\u2019s not just the money, to be fair \u2013 Guardiola\u2019s coaching is clearly having a massive effect both on individual players and the team as a whole (though of course it was money that brought him to Manchester). 65 mins: Chelsea commit some numbers forward, which allows City to counter-attack. De Bruyne runs 50 yards with the ball, cuts in from the right, could perhaps have passed to David Silva but ends up in the area himself, where he falls over. 64 mins: Sane crosses nicely from the left, and Christensen sticks out a leg at the near post. He could have deflected the ball anywhere, but it ends up in Courtois\u2019 gloves. 62 mins: Since the goal Chelsea have changed neither personnel nor shape. They have attacked in decent numbers at least once, but the pattern of the game has not changed. 59 mins: From the corner the ball is swung to Laporte, who has the chance to volley in a second, but he swings his right foot at the ball and misses it entirely. 58 mins: From a free kick De Bruyne crosses low to Aguero, who lays the ball back to David Silva, whose shot from the edge of the area is deflected wide. 57 mins: Rudiger is booked for persistent foul play. 55 mins: \u201cAs a Bristol City fan, I went to both legs of our Carabao Cup and saw us giving them a real battle both times,\u201d writes Steven Hughes. \u201cYou\u2019ve got to give Man City something to think about and put some doubt in their minds to have any chance at all.\u201d There was a time back in January, when Bristol City played so well at the Etihad and then Manchester City went to Anfield and lost, that it seemed that opponents had discovered a new, brighter, more offensive method of combating this team. It seems it was a false dawn. 54 mins: Chelsea attack, and Moses overlaps beyond Willian, who has taken Zinchenko out of position, and is picked out. He has space, and team-mates inside him, but blasts a shot wide of the near post. 52 mins: Gary Neville is angry again. \u201cI said it about Arsenal last week, walking. It\u2019s embarrassing. They\u2019re letting Man City play. They\u2019re like manikins,\u201d he says. \u201cThere\u2019s a distinction between showing City respect and just resigning before the game. It\u2019s painful to watch, this.\u201d Talking of which, here\u2019s an email from Matt Loten. \u201cI\u2019m a big Gary Neville fan, but I hope the Hazard rant, so soon after the Arsenal rant, isn\u2019t a sign of things to come. He\u2019s 20 years too young to become a parody of himself already.\u201d 48 mins: That should surely change the match for the better, unless Chelsea are here for nothing more than damage limitation. Within 40 seconds of the restart, City have the lead! A long ball over the defence is poorly defended by Chistensen and David Silva takes possession. He crosses low and it flies through to Bernardo Silva, who prods into the ground and sends the ball bouncing in! 46 mins: Peeeeeep! They\u2019re off! Again! Anyway, the players are back out. I hope and believe that in the summer other teams will regroup and launch into next season with refreshed ambition, but at the moment almost every opponent reacts to City\u2019s excellence by abandoning all attacking intent, making for games with little entertainment and \u2013 particularly when the team doing the abandoning has the recent history and resources of Chelsea \u2013 making themselves appear cowardly. It is not enjoyable to watch, but then one-sided contests in which City outplay opponents who weaken their defensive efforts by actually attacking are not really rewarding either. Liverpool offer a decent blueprint for an alternative option, but it is one that is completely foreign to the other managers of top six clubs. 45+2 mins: That is the end of the half. Chelsea have been depressingly lacking in adventure and ambition, but at the end of it they\u2019re not losing, so job done. 45+1 mins: Rudiger has the ball, 15 yards outside his penalty area. He looks up, assesses his options, and then decides he hasn\u2019t got any and launches the ball downfield to Ederson. 45+1 mins: There will be one minute of stoppage time. 42 mins: Chelsea win a corner kick! Pedro goes on a nice jinking run into the area, on the left, and the ball eventually goes behind. Nothing comes of it, but that is still Chelsea\u2019s best attacking moment of the half. 41 mins: There\u2019s a pause while the referee speaks to Rudiger about a foul, and City prepare to take a free kick. Then De Bruyne slides it to the feet of Aguero, running clear of the Chelsea defence, but he ran too soon, and is offside. 40 mins: Moses has the ball on the right touchline, level with the edge of the area. He looks up, he assesses his options, then he decides he doesn\u2019t really have any, and launches the ball up the pitch to Ederson. 37 mins: Gary Neville on Sky has launched into another furious rant, and Chelsea have provoked it. Eden Hazard\u2019s general air of disinterest has irked him, and he then calls the idea of launching a long throw in his direction \u201chopelessly defeatist\u201d. 36 mins: Touches so far: David Silva 50; Eden Hazard 8. 35 mins: Willian, Chelsea\u2019s best/only decent attacking player, starts a counter, but as soon as the ball leaves his boot it becomes hopelessly imprecise, and ends with a stretching Pedro hitting a cross straight to Ederson. 33 mins: Another lovely run from Sane ends with a pass across the edge of the area. David Silva dummies it and it runs to Bernardo Silva, in space on the right of the area, but his first-time shot is hopeless, and flies both high and wide. 31 mins: Willian gets down the right, and is taken out by Otamendi. The referee, standing not five yards away, waves play on, bizarrely. 30 mins: I\u2019m loving the old-fashioned substitute-warming techniques being employed by City today: 27 mins: Cleared off the line! From a free kick wide on the right De Bruyne swings in a cross and Sane, beyond the far post, controls it brilliantly, checks onto his right foot and cracks a low, hard shot at goal that beats Courtois but picks out Azpilicueta, who has anticipated the situation brilliantly and gets in the way. 24 mins: Zinchenko has been booked, for an absurd sliding tackle on Moses which took out the player about 20 minutes after the ball had gone. Only a total absence of stud-on-flesh contact kept him on the pitch there. 24 mins: Chelsea attack! Willian gets down the right and slams in a low cross, which is cleared. 23 mins: Without the ball Chelsea are playing with a 5-4-1, with the five on the edge of their area and the four about five yards ahead of them, while a lonely Hazard strolls about towards the halfway line. They have ceded four-fifths of the pitch to City, and are worrying only about the final 35 yards of it. 20 mins: Sane runs off the left wing and into the area before tapping to Aguero, who gets the ball stuck between his feet and has to turn away from goal before passing to Bernardo Silva, who tries a left-foot curler similar to the one that ended in the back of the net against Arsenal on Thursday, but this one ends on top of the net. 18 mins: A better pass from Fabregas, forward this time, forces Ederson to sprint from his area and clumsily bundle the ball out of play for a throw-in. 16 mins: City have had 80% of possession so far, and are absolutely dominant. De Bruyne lifts the ball over the defence to Sane, who attempts an extravagant first-time shot from the left side of the area, which goes well wide. 13 mins: A loose pass from Fabregas plays Chelsea into trouble, is intercepted by Sane and reaches Aguero, but he tries to run around the perimeter of the six-yard line and then shoots into a thicket of defending legs. 11 mins: A chance! A fine exchange of passes ends with David Silva getting to the byline again, and his low cross finds Sane, but he\u2019s surprised that it\u2019s done so, isn\u2019t quite ready to shoot, and the ball is deflected wide. 8 mins: Willian runs into Zinchenko\u2019s leg, and goes over. He eventually rises, without medical attention. 7 mins: Chelsea are yet to show much by way of attacking ambition, but they are defending alertly and in numbers. 4 mins: Nothing comes from the corner, but he ball remains in Chelsea\u2019s half. David Silva then moves silkily into and through the visitors\u2019 penalty area, reaches the byline and then crosses too close to Courtois. 3 mins: City ping some passes about, and then De Bruyne tries to pass to Aguero in the area, but a defender gets there first and boots the ball into space, and also behind. 1 min: Peeeeep! Chelsea get the match started. Apparently the unwell Kante is currently \u201clying down in the team bus\u201d. And now they\u2019re out! The Etihad has something of a jazzy, mirrored tunnel, allowing some of their more moneyed supporters the chance to ogle the players before everyone else can. And that is what they are currently doing. Antonio Conte has been speaking about Davide Astori, who he coached when he was in charge of Italy\u2019s national team: This is a tragedy. This news really, it hurt me, and it\u2019s very difficult in this moment to find the right words for the family. I had him with the national team. I repeat, it is very hard at this moment to speak about this tragedy. He was a fantastic guy, he was a great player but especially a fantastic guy. I stay really close to his family at this moment. He was only 31, and it\u2019s very difficult to explain this situation. Pep Guardiola speaks, briefly: My players know, they play many times against Chelsea and they know how good they are. All their people in front they are so dangerous one against one, Cesc is a master at seeing the balls. They\u2019re the last champions, so they deserve all the credit. Today\u2019s first Premier League game is over, and Brighton have beaten Arsenal 2-1. It is Arsenal\u2019s fourth successive Premier League defeat, a fourth in succession in all competitions, and takes Brighton \u2013 undefeated in five top-flight matches now \u2013 into the top 10, to 34 points and the verge of Premier League survival (though they must still play Manchester City, Manchester United, Liverpool and Tottenham). Arsenal are eight points behind Chelsea, 13 points from the top four, and five ahead of Burnley. Kante\u2019s absence will be extremely debilitating for Chelsea, for this of all matches; City have other midfielders of great ability, but none with his particular skillset. Meanwhile replacing a target man with another fiddly little forward, with Eden Hazard presumably doing his false nine thing, suggests an intention to fight fire with fire. City, however, have particularly impressive fire. City bring in Alexander Zinchenko and Aymeric Laporte and shuffle Vincent Kompany and Danilo to the bench; Chelsea must do without the unwell Ngolo Kante and leave Alvaro Morata on the bench, with Cesc Fabregas and Pedro coming into the starting XI. Hello world! Well, there\u2019s no time for beating around the bush: I have the teams, and I will give them to you: Man City: Ederson, Walker, Otamendi, Laporte, Zinchenko, De Bruyne, Gundogan, Silva, Bernardo Silva, Aguero, Sane. Subs: Bravo, Danilo, Kompany, Stones, Gabriel Jesus, Toure, Foden. Chelsea: Courtois, Azpilicueta, Christensen, Rudiger, Moses, Fabregas, Drinkwater, Alonso, Willian, Hazard, Pedro. Subs: Chalobah, Caballero, Morata, Giroud, Zappacosta, Cahill, Emerson. Referee: Michael Oliver. Simon will be here soon. Here\u2019s our match preview: A final 10-game title-procession for Manchester City has an apt beginning with the visit of the champions, Chelsea. Defeat Antonio Conte\u2019s side and Pep Guardiola\u2019s team will require a maximum 12 more points to be crowned champions for a fifth time. Given City have dropped nine points all season and lost only once in the league under Guardiola, the odds are against Chelsea. Jamie Jackson"
"13||Kings of loser comedy: how Flight of the Conchords took offFew comedians ever play London\u2019s O2 Arena and fewer still manage three nights in a row. Those who do tend to have some things in common: a relatable observational style, limited creative ambition and ruthless commercial savvy. None of which applies to Flight of the Conchords, perhaps the unlikeliest act ever to reach those airless heights of the comic stratosphere. I saw Flight of the Conchords last week, warming up for their forthcoming arena tour with a run at the 140-seat Soho theatre. Watching their suite of kooky songs about medieval romance, piano-playing seagulls and spoon thieves, laughing at their low-key chat and minutely detailed interplay, the thought of their imminent transfer to arena stages was supremely incongruous. Not least to the Conchords themselves. \u201cWe\u2019ll keep that in for the O2,\u201d they\u2019d remark, after this or that improvised quip or ramshackle moment of fun. If you first saw Bret McKenzie and Jemaine Clement, as I did, in a dingy cellar on the Edinburgh fringe 15 years ago, you may struggle to wrap your head around the scale of their new tour. But if you factor in a Disney film, writing an Oscar-winning song for The Muppets, a sleeper hit HBO sitcom, and the fact that this musical-comedy duo is one of the funniest and most talented acts to come along in two decades \u2013 well, an explanation begins to take shape. It\u2019s certainly not down to any dead-eyed careerism. In my 20 years of interviewing comics, few appeared as shambling and un-starry as McKenzie and Clement in 2003 \u2013 the year they were nominated for Edinburgh\u2019s Perrier award. The previous year, theirs had been the festival\u2019s breakout show, due largely to word-of-mouth enthusiasm spread by fellow comics. Their shtick was artless banter spliced with improbable comic songs, notable for their pernickety lyrics and eclectic musicianship. Zoological rap battle Hiphopopotamus Vs Rhymenoceros was an early favourite (\u201cThey call me the Hiphopopotamus / My lyrics are bottomless\u201d and \u201cI\u2019m not a large water-dwelling mammal / Where did you get that preposterous hypothesis?\u201d). The Humans Are Dead, with its \u201cbinary solo\u201d and robo-vocal account of the apocalypse, was another, while their Space Oddity spoof Bowie\u2019s in Space was achingly near the mark. With just a couple of acoustic guitars and a digital glockenspiel, they were maestros of every pop music style imaginable, although they concealed their talent with gags. \u201cYou can tell when we\u2019ve learned a new chord,\u201d they told me, \u201cbecause we\u2019ll use it in our next three songs.\u201d On stage, they played losers who thought they were winners. Off stage, they were winners who pretended to be losers. They\u2019d been invited to Hollywood to pitch a project, they told me \u2013 but \u201cyou needed a clear idea of what you wanted to do, and we didn\u2019t have any idea at all\u201d. So they were sent packing. I left that interview unsure whether I\u2019d met the \u201creal\u201d Clement and McKenzie or an extension of the gormless act. From the off, they excelled at scrambling truth and fiction \u2013 as per the blissful bit of onstage dialogue in which they guess when the other is in character (\u201cYou\u2019re in \u2026 now you\u2019re out \u2026 now you\u2019re in \u2026\u201d) It helped that they took deadpan to whole new tiers of blankness. \u201cIt\u2019s so dry and so Kiwi,\u201d says their compatriot and fellow comic Rose Matafeo, who is not alone in tracing much of the Conchords\u2019 distinctiveness back to their national character. \u201cThe constant self-deprecation, the playing it straight, these are so common in New Zealand. We\u2019re at the bottom of the world, so isolated. We\u2019re like what would happen if you left someone alone in a room for a day.\u201d Jarred Christmas, another New Zealand comic, is surprised how far this took them. \u201cI never thought there\u2019d be an international embrace of that. I\u2019d never seen that happen, comedy-wise.\u201d Christmas co-starred in the Conchords\u2019 eponymous 2005 Radio 2 sitcom, as did Jimmy Carr, Daniel Kitson and Rob Brydon (the Conchords have always surrounded themselves with fast-rising talent). \u201cWhat struck me,\u201d Christmas says, \u201cis that no matter how laidback they are, they\u2019ve always believed they\u2019re good enough. You\u2019ll notice that, on the radio show, not one of their songs was played in full. So they retained the rights, rather than those defaulting to the BBC. Clearly, they had their sights set on something bigger.\u201d Something bigger duly came in 2007, with the launch of the duo\u2019s HBO sitcom, again eponymously titled. They played themselves as hapless immigrants in New York, making zero impression as a band whose manager (played by Rhys Darby) moonlights as a cultural attache at the New Zealand consulate. The series feigned to mock their homeland\u2019s eccentricity and boringness. But, really, it celebrated those qualities. Eccentricity and boringness were the show\u2019s touchstones, while its USP was the radical flatness of McKenzie and Clement\u2019s performances. They took the faux-real stylings of The Office et al and ratcheted up the humdrum, but combined it with wildly incongruous bursts of song in which Bret and Jemaine\u2019s fantasy lives paraded across the screen. The show ran for two series, featuring soon-to-be-illustrious co-stars (Aziz Ansari, Kristen Wiig) and winning Emmy nominations. Clement and McKenzie also won a 2008 Grammy for best comedy album. The series was never more than a cult hit, in the UK at least, but its significance outstripped its ratings. It opened the world up to indie Kiwi culture and alerted American TV to overseas talent. Where McKenzie and Clement led, the likes of Trevor Noah, John Oliver and James Corden have followed. Likewise, in its depiction of failure, in its disdain for TV conventions (it was part-improvised), and in its uniquely hip brand of musical comedy, the show proved more influential than its modest impact at the time might suggest. Conventionally, failure in comedy has been something to rail against: it\u2019s the struggle that makes it funny. In Flight of the Conchords, there is no struggle, just placid acceptance. \u201cIt showed you didn\u2019t have to be an alpha male,\u201d says Christmas \u2013 and in so doing, it flew the flag for a new generation making more arty and intimate, less obvious and aggressive comedy. But it cross-fertilised that strain with the gentle surrealism of Spaced and The Mighty Boosh, to show that you could be dorky losers and rock gods, confirmed bachelors and lotharios. Key to this were the songs, two per episode, that underscore the flights of fancy that offset (or should that be overtake?) Bret and Jemaine\u2019s feckless real lives. The songs alter the reality, moving the plot along in unreal ways, as if singing yourself out of loser-dom really were an option. Narratively, it made tenuous sense, but you were enjoying the songs too much to care. \u201cOne of the hardest things in musical comedy is to write a number that people want to hear again,\u201d says Phil Nichol, of 1990s Canadian musical comedy act Corky and the Juice Pigs. \u201cUsually, once you\u2019ve heard the jokes at the end of each stanza, you know all you need to know. But both Jemaine and Bret are amazing musicians. They write stuff that makes you think, \u2018Wow, why didn\u2019t I write that?\u2019 Their songs are exceptionally replayable.\u201d Many of them match or even eclipse the tracks they pastiche \u2013 such as the Emmy-nominated Carol Brown (based on Paul Simon\u2019s 50 Ways to Leave Your Lover), or the Peter Sarstedt take-off Rambling Through the Avenues of Time. It\u2019s certainly a rare feat to make musical comedy cool. A rarer feat still is to graduate from writing funny songs to winning best song Oscars, which McKenzie did in 2012 with Man or Muppet from that year\u2019s Muppets movie. Clement\u2019s interim career has been even more eye-catching, with voiceover roles as Fleshlumpeater in Steven Spielberg\u2019s The BFG, as the villainous crustacean Tamatoa in Disney\u2019s Moana, and as intergalactic criminal Boris \u201cthe Animal\u201d in Men in Black III. \u201cPeople who discovered them at the movies have then gone back and watched Flight of the Conchords,\u201d says Christmas. \u201cAnd the sitcom did what The Office did: it stopped at its peak, arguably before its peak, so people have remained perpetually desperate for more.\u201d And now they\u2019re getting it, as McKenzie and Clement touch down for the UK leg of their world tour. \u201cThey\u2019ve just been so consistently good over their entire career,\u201d says Matafeo, who credits the life she\u2019s living today as a New Zealand comic, based in the UK and working internationally, to their example. \u201cEveryone has their own special relationship with a stage of the Conchords\u2019 career. Some people saw them early, at Edinburgh. Some people \u2013 like me \u2013 remember downloading bootlegs of their songs from the internet. And some people came to them after the sitcom finished. It\u2019s all been so good that, whenever you encounter them, you fall in love with them.\u201d Flight of the Conchords are at Portsmouth Guildhall from 5-7 March. Then touring the UK until 3 April. Phil Nichol\u2019s tour Your Wrong starts in September."
"14||Government let slip chance to retrieve \u00a3364m from CarillionThe government knew of a plan that could have retrieved more than \u00a3360m from Carillion, limiting the cost of its collapse to taxpayers and sparing pension scheme members from cuts to their retirement payouts, but did not encourage directors to pursue it. Multiple sources told the Guardian that the Cabinet Office, responsible for oversight of government contractors, did not apply any pressure on Carillion\u2019s directors to adopt the proposals, presented by accounting firm EY in mid-December last year. EY\u2019s plan would have involved breaking up the company, selling the profitable parts and placing the rest into liquidation, avoiding an involuntary collapse. The accounting firm believed this would generate \u00a3364m, of which \u00a3218m could be injected into the firm\u2019s 13 pension schemes, estimated to have a deficit of close to \u00a31bn. One source familiar with the company\u2019s final weeks said this could have prevented some of the schemes entering the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), an outcome that will reduce the amount that many of its 27,500 members receive in retirement. A spokesperson for the former directors admitted last week that they rejected EY\u2019s plan, believing they could still engineer a turnaround by convincing banks to swap some of their debt for stakes in the company. Several sources have confirmed to the Guardian that the Cabinet Office also saw EY\u2019s calculations but did not put any pressure on Carillion directors to pursue it. EY drew up two scenarios, an involuntary insolvency that would leave little cash to pay creditors, pensioners and the administrators, or the break-up plan that could have raised \u00a3364m. \u201cBoth options were communicated to government, the company\u2019s lenders and pension trustees at the time,\u201d said the former directors\u2019 spokesperson. The Cabinet Office confirmed it had seen the options presented by EY but declined to comment on how it responded. A spokesman said: \u201cThroughout this process, the government has been clear that its priority is to ensure that public services continue to run properly, and we regularly meet with our strategic suppliers and monitor their financial health. Since the collapse of Carillion, our plans have ensured that public services can continue to run as normal.\u201d But the Guardian understands that government officials, who were holding weekly meetings to monitor Carillion\u2019s health, did not believe it appropriate to offer business advice to directors. A source who was present at discussions between the company, government and the pension trustees said: \u201cI think they [the government] thought that if they could get to the end of January, they could find new finance and the company would survive, maybe in a different structure. \u201cI don\u2019t think they thought it would go bang.\u201d The source added that there was no certainty that EY\u2019s plan would have worked but admitted that if it had, some pension schemes could have stayed out of the PPF, which would have incurred a lower liability. He added that it could also have lowered the expense borne by taxpayers, who have so far spent \u00a350m out of \u00a3150m set aside by the government to pay for Carillion\u2019s liquidation process. Jon Trickett, the shadow minister for business and the Cabinet Office, said: \u201cThis is astonishing. They [the government] were asleep on the job, the question is why. \u201cThe first explanation is a blind ideological commitment to outsourcing, that private is always better than public even when it\u2019s blindingly obvious that the public sector needs to intervene. The second is that they\u2019re preoccupied with infighting over Brexit. \u201cThe public purse, the staff, recipients of Carillion\u2019s services and the pension fund are all suffering as a consequence of public failure.\u201d Gail Cartmail, the assistant general secretary at trade union Unite, said: \u201cThe government\u2019s catalogue of failures with regards to Carillion is growing by the day. By failing to ensure an orderly break up of Carillion they have cost the taxpayer millions of pounds in insolvency costs and redundancy payments. \u201cIt also meant that sub-contractors continued to provide goods and services to Carillion which they will never be paid for which has resulted in workers losing their jobs and companies going to the wall. \u201cThis is yet another reason why we need a full public inquiry into Carillion\u2019s collapse so that all the relevant information is placed in the open and those responsible for this terrible mess are named and shamed.\u201d Fresh revelations about the government\u2019s failure to act come a day after MPs conducting an inquiry into Carillion\u2019s demise released evidence they said indicated \u201cgross failings of corporate governance and accounting\u201d. MPs on the business committee and their counterparts on the work and pensions committee published a report that was commissioned in September by banks that were considering lending the company more money. The report warned that Carillion was facing a financial crisis after suffering major losses on key projects in the UK, Canada and the Middle East, accusing it of \u201coverstatement\u201d of profits on the contracts. Less than four months later, Carillion collapsed into liquidation, a process that has cost taxpayers \u00a350m, triggered 1,400 redundancies and threatened the survival of thousands of firms in the company\u2019s supply chain. Written by business advisory group FTI, the report highlighted accounting practices designed to \u201cenhance the reported profitability and net debt position\u201d of Carillion, rather than dealing with its underlying practices. These included deferring payments, bringing forward receipts from contracts and accepting short-term loans from joint-ventures. \u201cThe group has been poorly managed for a considerable period during which time significant underperformance and contract issues have been masked by aggressive accounting,\u201d FTI said. It accused the company of accepting large contracts too quickly and on \u201cinappropriate\u201d terms, in order to secure upfront payments and report large contract wins. It said Carillion compensated for its failure to convert its reported profits into genuine cash by racking up ever higher debts. When confronted with FTI\u2019s findings, the company\u2019s management said they believed the assessment was too harsh, according to the report. But FTI insisted its report was balanced and did not even represent a \u201cworst case\u201d scenario, adding that lending Carillion any more money would be \u201cextremely high risk\u201d."
"2||Ars\u00e8ne Wenger insists he is \u2018still the right man for the job\u2019 at ArsenalArs\u00e8ne Wenger admitted Arsenal\u2019s hopes of a top-four Premier League finish were over after the 2-1 defeat at Brighton. The club lag 13 points behind fourth\u2011placed Tottenham Hotspur and the Europa League appears to have become their only shot at Champions League qualification. They play Milan in the last 16. Wenger heard the travelling fans call for him to leave during a dismal first half at the Amex Stadium but he maintained he was the right man to revive the club\u2019s faltering fortunes. This was a fourth successive defeat in all competitions \u2013 the first time the Frenchman has endured such a sequence since 2002. \u201cIt is very difficult, nearly impossible now \u2013 we are too far behind,\u201d Wenger said of Arsenal\u2019s top-four prospects. \u201cWe have to be realistic. We need two teams to collapse and I don\u2019t see that happening. We have to give our best for as long as we can and the Europa League becomes important.\u201d Petr Cech was at fault for both of the Brighton goals and he tweeted an apology. \u201cIf you want to win a game away from home in the best league in the world, your goalkeeper can\u2019t concede two goals like I did today,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s simply not possible. The team fought back but the damage was done.\u201d Arsenal had arrived at Brighton on the back of defeats against Manchester City in the Carabao Cup final last Sunday and the league on Thursday. \u201cI can understand the frustration [of the supporters],\u201dWenger said. \u201cWhat can I say? The League Cup in the middle of the season makes it difficult if you don\u2019t win it. It brings a lot of negative waves. \u201cOn top of that, the rearranged game on Thursday night [against City] didn\u2019t help us to compete today. The negativity after losing the final, plus the fact we\u2019re not in a fantastic position in the league, hits us hard. Am I still the right man? Yes, because I\u2019ve done it before. I believe a quality of a manager is to try to shorten a crisis. I believe I can do that.\u201d"
"0||Shropshire family paid damages after armed police 'assault'A retired couple and their son have been paid damages by a police force after a \u201cterrifying\u201d incident in which officers armed with Glock pistols and Tasers assaulted the three in their rural home following a dispute with neighbours. West Mercia police has admitted assault and battery, false imprisonment, trespass and breaches of article three of the European Convention on Human Rights, which prohibits degrading treatment or punishment. Brian and Ghi Arundale, 85, and 67, and their son Ralph, 37, told the Guardian they still had not had a satisfactory apology. Ms Arundale, who used to work as a neighbour watch volunteer, said: \u201cI now have total distrust of the police. If anyone else had behaved like they did they would have lost their jobs and probably been prosecuted. Nothing has happened to these officers.\u201d The family claim they still have had no proper explanation of why the police acted as they did. Ralph said: \u201cIt was such a violation. They came into our own home and set on us. I will never let a police officer into the house again.\u201d The incident followed a long-running dispute between the Arundales and a neighbouring family in the village of Coreley, near Ludlow, Shropshire. On 6 July 2014 Ralph dialled 999 alleging one of the neighbours had threatened his mother. Three days later a police constable, Jill Richardson, called Ralph while he was out having a meal with his parents to say she wanted \u201ca quick word\u201d. When the family arrived home they were surprised to see Richardson on their drive accompanied by two male officers armed with Glock pistols and Tasers. \u201cWe were taken aback. We wondered what on earth had happened,\u201d said Ms Arundale. They invited the officers in and Richardson explained that they were there to seize Brian Arundale\u2019s three shotguns, which he kept for clay pigeon shooting. Ms Arundale claimed the officers were \u201chostile and aggressive\u201d. Mr Arundale, a retired quantity surveyor, objected as he believed there was no good reason for the guns to be taken but eventually accompanied one of the male officers up to his office, where they were kept. Ms Arundale said she became concerned when she heard her husband raise his voice and tried to go upstairs. She claims one of the male officers blocked her and pushed her. \u201cI fell backwards,\u201d Ms Arundale said. \u201cPC Richardson then dragged me backwards, bouncing me down the stairs.\u201d Ms Arundale alleges she was punched or kicked in the back and handcuffed tightly and painfully. Ralph, who had gone outside with the family dog, heard the noise and dashed in. He claims he was grabbed by one of the male officers and restrained. At one point he alleges his neck was pressed against the edge of a stair, making it hard for him to breathe. \u201cMy vision went black,\u201d he said. \u201cI genuinely thought: \u2018These guys aren\u2019t going to stop.\u2019 I was terrified.\u201d Ralph alleges he was handcuffed behind his back and punched in the head. West Mercia police accept that one of the officers drew his Glock pistol and threatened to shoot the dog, an American bulldog, and that a Taser was drawn and pointed at Ralph but not discharged. When Mr Arundale came downstairs and tried to stop the Taser being pointed at Ralph, he alleges he was punched in the shoulder. Ms Arundale and Ralph were taken to Hereford police station in separate vehicles and then on to hospital. Ms Arundale\u2019s injuries included severe bruising to her back and loss of sensation in her left wrist and hand. A nurse who examined her said that if the injuries to her wrist had been any deeper then she would have needed plastic surgery. Her urine was tested for blood as he was concerned about kidney damage. Ralph had suffered bruising and a cut to his arm. Mother and son were later charged with assaulting Richardson, who claimed she was kicked by Ms Arundale and punched by Ralph. West Mercia police initially told the Crown Prosecution Service that its officers were trying to prevent an imminent breach of the peace by seizing the shotguns but the prosecution was eventually discontinued. A police professional standards report concluded that in fact there appeared to be no imminent breach of the peace and the officers had entered the Arundales\u2019 home unlawfully. The Independent Police Complaints Commission expressed concern at \u201ca lack of responsibility, accountability or acceptance of decision making in an event where officers equipped with firearms were assigned\u201d. The Arundales said they were still mystified as to why the police acted as they did. \u201cWe don\u2019t know why they brought firearms officers to the house. There is no logic to it,\u201d said Ms Arundale. \u201cWe had made the 999 call. We invited them into our house courteously. It was totally over the top, quite horrific.\u201d They believe their complaints to the police were not taken seriously. \u201cWe felt the whole way it was handled was to close ranks, shut this down and minimise it. We\u2019re pleased the police have admitted liability and awarded us damages but we feel we should have an unreserved apology.\u201d The Arundales eventually obtained the statement Richardson had made. She said that when she went to speak to the neighbour about the alleged threat against Ms Arundale, she was told the Arundales had shotguns. Seven years before Ms Arundale had fired a shotgun into a shrubbery after a previous incident \u2013 and had admitted criminal damage over it. The neighbour said she was worried she might use a gun again. Richardson also said that Ms Arundale and Ralph were abusive and when Ms Arundale started to go upstairs she thought she had \u201csomething\u201d in her pocket. Ms Arundale insists she had nothing and no object was found when she was searched. Richardson claimed Ms Arundale fell backwards down the stairs deliberately \u2013 and rubbed her wrists against the handcuffs to hurt herself. While West Mercia police settled, it did not accept all aspects of the Arundales\u2019 version of events and did not accept responsibility for all the injuries suffered. The family\u2019s lawyer, Gus Silverman, a specialist civil liberties lawyer at Irwin Mitchell, said: \u201cIt\u2019s exceptionally unusual for a police force to admit that its officers breached article three of the European Convention on Human Rights, which prohibits inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. \u201cThe fact that West Mercia police has admitted liability here really speaks to the gravity of this case and the appalling treatment suffered by my clients.\u201d He called for a full apology. Ch Supt Charles Hill, from West Mercia police, said: \u201cI can confirm that West Mercia police has agreed a legal settlement in relation to an incident arising from a neighbour dispute in Coreley. We have settled the claim on the basis of technical legal advice and we do not accept all elements of the claimants\u2019 case. \u201cThree officers involved in the case were subject to a misconduct meeting where it was found there was no case to answer, although the force has taken some learning from this incident.\u201d"
"3||Oil deal corruption trial in Italy is 'wake-up call for industry'An Italian trial which sees Anglo Dutch firm Shell and Italy\u2019s Eni face corruption charges over a $1.3bn Nigerian oil deal should act as a wake-up call to the oil industry, campaigners have said. The court case starting on Monday has been brought by Milan prosecutors and centres on alleged bribes paid by the oil companies to win a licence in 2011 for a highly-valued field off the west African coast. Both companies strongly reject any wrongdoing. The pair each own half of the rights to the OPL-245 field, which is estimated to contain a vast 9.3bn barrels of crude which has still not been produced. The Italian case against the firms alleges that they secured the licence by channelling $1.1bn of a $1.3bn settlement to the Nigerian government to a company linked to former Nigerian oil minister, Dan Etete, depriving ordinary Nigerians of the money. Etete, who was convicted in 2007 prior to the Shell/Eni deal of money laundering in a separate French case, is accused by prosecutors of spending $300m of the sum on real estate, aircraft, armoured cars. Etete denies the accusations. Eni\u2019s chief executive, Claudio Descalzi, is among the executives charged and due in court, along with Shell\u2019s Malcolm Brinded, who was executive director of upstream international during the deal. \u201cThis trial should be a wake-up call to the oil industry. Some of the most senior executives at two of the biggest companies in the world could face prison sentences for a deal that was struck under their watch,\u201d said Barnaby Pace of campaign group Global Witness. The court case is expected to last at least a year, as prosecutors question oil executives and take evidence on the alleged corruption and bribery involved in an extraordinary effort to win the licence. According to court documents, that effort involved Shell hiring John Copleston, a former M16 employee who had contacts at the top levels of the Nigerian government, to work as a strategic investment adviser. Leaked Shell emails show the company was negotiating with Etete ahead of the deal, with Copleston writing in 2010: \u201cEtete can smell the money.\u201d Shell said that no bribes or illegal payments were made with its knowledge, and there was no place for bribery in the company. It added there were no \u201cquid pro quo\u201d arrangements with any government officials. \u201cBased on our review of the prosecutor of Milan\u2019s file and all of the information and facts available to us, we do not believe that there is a basis to convict Shell or any of its former employees,\u201d a spokesperson said. Eni said its own independent investigations of the claims had concluded there was nothing irregular about the deal. A spokesperson said: \u201cEni expresses its full confidence in the judicial process and that the trial will ascertain and confirm the correctness and integrity of its conduct related to the acquisition of the OPL 245 operating licence.\u201d Nigeria\u2019s financial watchdog, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), is also investigating the case, and has a court hearing planned for June."
"2||Abject Arsenal wilt again to deepen the dent in Ars\u00e8ne Wenger\u2019s legacyIt was the body language that damned Arsenal most of all. The hunching of the shoulders and shuffled attempts to retreat into position, internationals of considerable repute with their heads down, trudging around the pitch as if wading through treacle. Ars\u00e8ne Wenger described them as \u201cpassive\u201d. About as animated as they became during a dreadful opening half-hour was when Mesut \u00d6zil flung his gloves to the turf in frustration, even if that was all for show. The same could be said for the anguished glances to the heavens at each misplaced pass or the yellow cards collected as if to be used as evidence of commitment. The hope had been that this team would be stung into a response after the high-profile defeats by Manchester City last week. In previous years they have somehow summoned a performance in the wake of choking disappointment to paper over the cracks. This time they were limp and dysfunctional, a team the home side sensed were there for the taking throughout that opening period, a collective bereft of spirit, organisation or belief \u2013 qualities Brighton &amp; Hove Albion displayed in abundance. Quailing defenders backed off Jos\u00e9 Izquierdo and both full-backs were racked by uncertainty. Petr Cech was off the pace and, as he admitted afterwards, culpable at each of the goals conceded. Midfielders in possession found options non-existent, with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang lost among blue and white shirts and appearing to lack the drive to find space. Set pieces, Brighton\u2019s weakness for much of this campaign, suddenly became an invitation to provoke panic. Glenn Murray, Shane Duffy and Lewis Dunk bullied their markers. Forget natural ability for a moment: Arsenal would have been far more imposing with that trio in their ranks. They were the leaders the visitors lacked. Wenger claimed a lack of confidence had created a false impression. \u201cThe disappointments, plus the fact we have been making defensive mistakes, means it looks like we lack leaders,\u201d he said. \u201cBut I don\u2019t believe that. We have to remain positive in a negative environment and show we have character and leaders.\u201d But this had been the occasion to do just that and his players, with the possible exception of the typically spiky Jack Wilshere, had withered. The more optimistic members of the coaching staff could point to a rally of sorts after the interval, and periods of pressure imposed on a side who have spent the entire season glancing over their shoulders at the relegation scrap. But no one present could be hoodwinked into thinking Arsenal deserved anything other than a sixth defeat in eight games, a fourth in succession, an eighth of the calendar year. The supporters had waited until their team were trailing by two before bellowing \u201cWe want Wenger out\u201d and, in truth, that was a truer reflection of disgust than any message on a banner fluttering behind a distant aeroplane. It is disheartening that it has come to this but it is now Arsenal\u2019s reality. Wenger\u2019s legacy will be tainted by such pathetic displays but is this team capable of recovering? The beleaguered manager is now prioritising the Europa League, as his selection demonstrated. The last time Arsenal lost five in a row was in 1977 and they visit a resurgent Milan on Thursday. Such is the dismal mood it is hard to envisage anything other than more pain being inflicted at San Siro."
"15||The Guardian\u2019s betrayal over Leveson part twoYour editorial (The Guardian\u2019s view on Leveson 2: look ahead, not behind, 2 March) constitutes a fourfold betrayal. It betrays your own journalists, who, with Nick Davies leading the way, laboured bravely and brilliantly to expose criminality and wrongdoing at national newspapers. It betrays the blameless and often vulnerable victims of those crimes, who were promised a full public inquiry, including the all-important Leveson part 2, but whom your editorial does not deem worthy of mention. And it betrays the public at large, including your readers, who, as Brian Leveson has pointed out, are entitled to know the true scale of what went wrong, how newspaper managements allowed it to happen and what lessons can be learned. In endorsing the cancellation of Leveson 2 you place yourself on the side not only of this Conservative government but also of its close allies, the newspapers that perpetrated the crimes and the wrongdoing. And what is your rationale? That we should look forward rather than back \u2013 a logic that negates all accountability and one that is always favoured by the unscrupulous and the unethical. This was unworthy of your newspaper\u2019s great traditions of independence, of service to the public and of intellectual rigour. That is the fourth betrayal. Professor Steven Barnett University of Westminster Professor Georgina Born University of Cambridge Professor Brian Cathcart University of Kingston Professor John Corner University of Leeds Professor James Curran Goldsmiths, University of London Professor David Deacon Loughborough University Professor Bob Franklin Cardiff University Professor Chris Frost Liverpool John Moores University Professor Ivor Gaber University of Sussex Professor Justin Lewis Cardiff University Professor Sonia Livingstone London School of Economics Professor Joni Lovenduski Birkbeck, University of London Professor Graham Murdock Loughborough University Professor Julian Petley Brunel University Professor Angela Phillips Goldsmiths, University of London Professor Greg Philo Glasgow University Dr Justin Schlosberg Birkbeck, University of London Professor Jean Seaton University of Westminster Professor Jeanette Steemers Kings College, University of London Dr Damian Tambini London School of Economics Dr Einar Thorsen Bournemouth University \u2022 What a disappointing editorial on Leveson; \u201clooking in the rear-view mirror\u201d indeed. Every investigation is a backward look at events and Leveson 2 would have allowed a thorough look at the relationships between the press and public officials. Less an attack on press freedom and more an investigation into possible corruption. Andy Trotter Former chief constable and media lead for the Association of Chief Police Officers, Tonbridge, Kent \u2022 The Guardian is the only newspaper I read and I am therefore disappointed, when the topic is a subject I know quite a lot about, to find false and pejorative phraseology. It makes be doubt the veracity of articles on matters where I have no personal knowledge. You refer to the \u201ctiny, state-sanctioned press regulator Impress\u201d. The state has not sanctioned Impress. Parliament set up the machinery (a royal charter) for an independent body, the Press Recognition Panel (PRP), to recognise any press regulator which fulfilled set criteria. This was to ensure that appropriate regulators of the UK press are independent, properly funded and able to protect the public. The PRP chair, David Wolfe, is quoted as saying: \u201cThe PRP works in the public interest by supporting and promoting a free press in a free and fair society.\u201d The Guardian has chosen not to be regulated by an independent body qualified to do so. I consider that it should not use its position to publish \u201cfake news\u201d about such a regulator. Caroline Instance Thakeham, West Sussex \u2022 One can only imagine the disappointment which must have been felt by the family of murdered Milly Dowler at the announcement that the second part of the Leveson inquiry has been cancelled. They \u2013 and no doubt many others \u2013 must have hoped that before too long questionable past relationships between police and the press would be fully investigated. It is hard to avoid the conclusion that, despite all that has happened around the original phone hacking scandal, government ministers are still inclined to bow to the will of the press barons. Jeremy Corbyn was right to press for change. Andrew McLuskey Staines, Middlesex \u2022 The interview with Max Mosley (Interview, 3 March) shows how little his views have really changed from when he was actively helping his father\u2019s fascist movement. Despite being asked to apologise over the notorious racist leaflet in the 1961 byelection, he refused to do so. And he still finds reasons to have supported apartheid in South Africa. There is certainly no criticism at all of Oswald Mosley\u2019s politics before and after the war. The Labour party should never have accepted funding from Max Mosley, though it is now stated it would not do so again. However, the \u00a3500,000 already received should now be returned and all the more so after Saturday\u2019s interview. It is tainted money. David Winnick London \u2022 Fifty-six years ago Max Mosley published a fascist leaflet (Labour to cut off donations from Mosley over links to \u2018racist\u2019 leaflet, 1 March). He now gives money to the Labour party, which is not a fascist party. Surely we should welcome it when people change their political views in a good direction. Why on earth is Labour refusing future donations from him? Chris Birch London \u2022 While nothing could or should justify the nature and language of the young Max Mosley\u2019s (purported) byelection leaflet for his father\u2019s Union Movement, a reading of his half-brother Nicholas Mosley\u2019s memoirs, Rules of the Game/Beyond the Pale: Memoirs of Sir Oswald Mosley and Family (1998) might at the very least put into context the bullying demands Oswald Mosley set upon his children, most especially his sons, Max and Alexander, from his second marriage to Diana (nee Mitford). Alexander, the older by a year, managed to escape to university in the US, but Max, while a student at Oxford and after, was certainly his father\u2019s Union party \u201cright-hand man\u201d, not least in 1962 when he rescued the unrepentant fascist from serious injury after an attack on a London Street. Oswald Mosley\u2019s postwar Union Movement was truly despicable and the young Max should have released himself from it at the earliest possible moment, but\u2026 Bruce Ross-Smith Oxford \u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com \u2022 Read more Guardian letters \u2013 click here to visit gu.com/letters"
"16||Nature and culture must be balanced in our national parksGeorge Monbiot raises some legitimate concerns about the management of parts of our national parks (Here\u2019s a novel idea: protecting wildlife in our national parks, 28 February) but to write off all 15 of them entirely is nonsense. Monbiot says: \u201cMuch of the land in our national parks is systematically burned.\u201d But they are more than just moorlands; they contain one-third of England\u2019s public forest estate. Northumberland contains some of the cleanest rivers in England; the New Forest includes a special area of conservation, an EU designation, that encompasses almost 30,000 hectares; and the Pembrokeshire coast some of the most biodiverse coastal habitats. In 2017 it was reported that two populations of leek-coloured hawkweed, a plant previously thought to be globally extinct, have been discovered in the Peak District national park. As the article highlights, our national parks are unlike those in countries where areas of wilderness have been put aside. There are around 120,000 people living within the boundaries of the South Downs national parks alone. Campaign for National Parks recognises that while our parks are beautiful, more could and should be done to make sure the ecosystems within them are healthier and that some species are better protected. The parks are important for cultural heritage and recreational opportunities as well as their wildlife and landscapes. Around 100 million people visit and benefit from our national parks each year. Monbiot\u2019s conclusion that the parks are for the few rather than the many is, therefore, overly simplistic. Fiona Howie Chief executive, Campaign for National Parks \u2022 Monbiot clearly does not like national parks, burning or sheep. But his arguments are flawed. Areas such as Dartmoor had a much richer range of wildlife (birds and mammals) when the moors were subject to far greater human activity (including burning) than now \u2013 from tinners, stonecutters, peatcutters and others, over hundreds of years. The demise of wildlife must surely, in part, be due to loss of habitat in lowland Britain and on migratory routes beyond. Nor does Monbiot understand that sheep are the best conservators of our cultural heritage and that Dartmoor has one of the finest cultural landscapes in the world, with physical evidence, accessible in an afternoon, of 6,000 years of human presence over every part of its moorland. Microscopic charcoal in peat tells us that the tradition of burning (swaling) superfluous vegetation in order to improve grazing quality of the sward is probably 8,000 years old. Due to de-stocking of the commons by prescriptions of Natural England since the mid-1990s, we already have a form of rewilding with vegetation (gorse and molinia grass) obscuring thousands of acres of cultural heritage, and impeding access for farmers and ramblers. Monbiot talks of \u201cburning libraries\u201d \u2013 in fact, access to our \u201clibrary\u201d of cultural heritage on Dartmoor is gravely diminished as a result of current policies. Nature and culture must be balanced if we are to fully appreciate and learn from our millennia of human experience in Britain \u2013 new thinking of how to manage an eco-cultural zone such as Dartmoor is urgently needed. Tom Greeves Chairman, The Dartmoor Society \u2022 It is unfortunate that Monbiot omitted the scientific papers explaining that grouse moor management preserves and enhances these globally important heather-dominated habitats; conservation work funded by shoots managing moors for heather, harriers and other wildlife. Sustaining this management requires a clear understanding of how the ecosystem responds. So we should clarify that the Langholm Moor Demonstration study has indicated that grouse numbers will not increase, from low levels to the levels required to run a shoot, while there is a high predation pressure, much of it caused by birds of prey. It seems likely that there will be a different response when maintaining higher numbers of grouse alongside birds of prey in favourable conservation status. This latter issue is being addressed by Defra\u2019s hen harrier recovery plan, which seeks to increase the numbers of these ground nesting birds alongside the shoots which provide their habitat, food and protection from foxes. Andrew Gilruth Director of Communications, Game &amp; Wildlife Conservation Trust \u2022 Monbiot\u2019s diatribe against all those involved in nurturing our moorlands is behind the curve, unjust and oversimplifies complex conservation issues. Controlled restoration burning is a vital tool for land managers in the ongoing improvement of England\u2019s unique upland ecology and plays an integral role in safeguarding the future of England\u2019s upland peatlands and blanket bogs. The process of burning allows for vegetation management and can help speed up restoration while also providing wildfire breaks, and is embedded in the countryside stewardship scheme promoted by Defra. A huge effort is under way by land managers to ensure that new peatland restoration best-practice guidelines are adopted on blanket bog nationwide. As for Monbiot\u2019s assertion that \u201cyou can either have a rich ecosystem or grouse shooting but not both\u201d, that claim does not hold true. Research shows that keepered moorland managed for red grouse safeguards protected habitats and is best for red-listed birds such as curlew and lapwing, which are up to five times more abundant on grouse moors (covering 30% of northern national parks in England) and are three times more likely to fledge their chicks because of legitimate predator control. Black grouse in England only exist on the edges of moorland managed for red grouse and nowhere else \u2013 yet they used to be common in every county. Maps showing confirmed incidents of bird-of-prey crime show it is an issue across the UK, and the incredible recovery of populations like red kites and buzzards is a huge success. The statistics in the latest RSPB bird crime report show there has been a marked drop in confirmed incidents of raptor persecution over the last five years. This is the progress we all want to see. Where there are crime incident hotspots, additional resource is being invested to stamp it out. Amanda Anderson Director of Moorland Association \u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com \u2022 Read more Guardian letters \u2013 click here to visit gu.com/letters"
"4||Huge income inequalities in society need to be tackledSteph McGovern complains about the struggle she has had to reach a six-figure salary, compared with \u201cposher\u201d colleagues at the BBC (Report, 26 February). There are so many people who contribute far more to society and yet will never attain a salary anywhere near what she earns. The debate about inequality in earnings between men and women (now also between posh/common accents?) seems to concentrate on those already earning a lot of money, is widely reported in the media and generally thought to be a bad thing that needs to change. The more important debate about the huge inequality between those at the top and bottom of society is reported occasionally and generally thought to be a slightly unfortunate thing, but necessary for the good of the economy and to encourage aspiration, and so needs little change. Let them take elocution lessons! Andrew Cruickshank Castle Douglas, Dumfries and Galloway \u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com \u2022 Read more Guardian letters \u2013 click here to visit gu.com/letters"
"17||Boris Johnson: a boarding school, Bullingdon Club vandalGary Younge does an exhaustive demolition job on the foreign secretary (Boris Johnson\u2019s white privilege: imagine he was a black woman, 2 March), but I think he lets off very lightly the institution that produces such a narrow-minded, incompetent elite. It is the private boarding school that produces the vandals of the Bullingdon Club. Their abuse and indoctrination of the privileged was well documented in Alex Renton\u2019s recent ITV documentary, Boarding Schools: The Secret Shame. Someone needs to take the bull by the horns. That means banning boarding for those under 14, and phasing out exclusive \u201cpublic\u201d schools as we know them. We could do a lot worse than look at how some of them could be converted into what social democratic Denmark calls efterskole (after schools): boarding fifth and sixth form colleges open to all and based round a philosophy of developing civically informed citizenship, and not entitlement. Perhaps Younge could take a look at this alternative and pass it in the direction of Angela Rayner, the shadow education minister. Clement Attlee, too devoted to his alma mater Haileybury, botched the last opportunity in 1945. Theresa May offers us only a few more grammar schools. Simon Partridge London \u2022 Gary Younge is very nearly correct to suggest \u201cyou could count the number of black women who appeared on Have I Got News for You on one hand\u201d. The actual meagre tally is six: Diane Abbott (on four occasions), Oona King, Trisha Goddard, June Sarpong, Moira Stuart and Desiree Burch. Nine appearances over 468 editions is a shockingly low figure. Dr Billy Smart London \u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com \u2022 Read more Guardian letters \u2013 click here to visit gu.com/letters"
"16||No big freeze in electric vehiclesI had to laugh at John Richards\u2019s worry about people freezing in stuck electric vehicles because their batteries would run down in \u201cno time\u201d while those in a petrol car could run their heater (Letters, 3 March). Running the heated seats and climate control for about seven hours costs about three miles of range for my Tesla and it\u2019s probably something similar for a petrol or diesel car. The big difference is, the electric vehicle won\u2019t be killing the occupants with carbon monoxide poisoning. Indeed, the advice has always been not to run the engine if stuck. Teslas have a 12v battery for \u201cdomestic\u201d uses and a 400v battery for motive power. The 400v kicks in to recharge the 12v when needed. Think of the 400v battery as the equivalent of running the engine to top up the battery. Cat Burton Barry, Vale of Glamorgan \u2022 Our electric car (a Leaf) has 24 kilowatt hours of battery power, and a rough guess gives about 15 to 18 hours of heating with a little left over for travel afterwards. The car is also extremely well insulated, and has seats heated from a subsidiary battery, which would give a further backup. The motor does not need to run to achieve this. The heating could be turned on and off, extending the heating period. The 2018 Nissan Leaf with the larger battery pack could last about 40% longer. In a car with an internal combustion engine, it may or may not keep warm for longer to run the engine. However the carbon monoxide emissions in a snow drift may negate the need to keep the corpses warm beyond 30 minutes. Steve Emsley Newcastle upon Tyne \u2022 My Renault Zoe has a battery capacity of 40 kilowatt hours, enough to run a one-bar electric fire for 40 hours. I suspect my car would keep me warm longer than a petrol or diesel vehicle, without the added hazard of surrounding the car with noxious fumes. Geoff Williams Wolverhampton \u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com \u2022 Read more Guardian letters \u2013 click here to visit gu.com/letters"
"0||Commoners revolt over royal wedding invitationConsidering the Guardian is meant to lean towards egalitarian values, you should have put inverted commas around commoners in the headline \u201cHarry and Meghan invite 2,640 commoners to their wedding\u201d (3 March). Tristan Moss York \u2022 Would that Britain moved into the 21st century and your fine newspaper wouldn\u2019t be writing articles on feminist princesses \u2013 surely an absurd anachronism (Gaby Hinsliff, 3 March). Catriona Whitton Dunblane, Stirling \u2022 Polly Toynbee (1 March) refers to the \u201cancient claim\u201d of Irish republicans to the six counties. That ancient claim is only as ancient as is Britain\u2019s occupation of the same six counties. For the record, it is an ongoing claim. Ch\u00e9 McKenna Dublin \u2022 Almost a week with no letters from \u201cemeriti\u201d. Perhaps we have been licking our wounds. As every classical scholar knows, E means you\u2019re out, and meritus means you deserve it. Very Rev Nicholas Frayling (Dean emeritus), Southsea, Hampshire \u2022 Re Bruce Holman\u2019s difficulty about the internal combustion engine (Letters, 3 March): amateur car mechanics use SSBB \u2013 Suck, Squeeze, Bang, Blow. Probably wouldn\u2019t have gained him top marks from his schoolteacher. Dr John Osley Abergele, Clwyd \u2022 Mangy Vermin Eat Mice; Jumping Softly Under Nasty Places. The semi-colon is the asteroid belt. Terry Leary Rugby, Warwickshire \u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com \u2022 Read more Guardian letters \u2013 click here to visit gu.com/letters \u2022 The headline to this article was amended on 5 March 2018."
"0||EU set to expose differences with Theresa May in draft Brexit guidelinesThe EU will keep its draft guidelines for a post-Brexit trade deal as short and general as possible, the Guardian understands, in order to force Theresa May to explain what the UK wants and leaving the door open for a British shift on the customs union and single market. The publication of the EU\u2019s draft guidelines on Tuesday will be a stark moment for the prime minister, as it is made clear that a whole range of proposals made by May in her Mansion House speech on Friday are to be rejected. The document will, however, fall short of providing any kind of detailed plan, due in part to a lack of substantive discussion among the member states on the issue, but also reflecting a hope that the UK\u2019s position would develop in time, senior EU sources said. An EU diplomat involved in drafting the position of the 27 member states said: \u201cThey will say explicitly or implicitly that the guidelines have to be short and general. If the UK position develops then we will be able to develop our response.\u201d The Labour party\u2019s shift in support of a customs union post-Brexit last Monday was warmly received in Brussels and there is an awareness of the precarious position May finds herself in parliament. Labour believes there may be enough support to win a cross-party amendment to the taxation (cross-border trade) bill and the trade bill which would commit the UK to seeking a deal \u201cwhich enables the UK to participate after exit day in a customs union with the EU\u201d. May\u2019s speech on Friday fell flat in Brussels, where it was felt the prime minister was still seeking the benefits of the single market without accepting the obligations to accept the primacy of EU law, jurisdiction of the European court of justice and the free movement of goods, capital, services and labour. She also failed to offer any new thinking on how to avoid a hard border on the island of Ireland. \u201cIt is good to hear that the UK wants to stay in regulatory alignment but that doesn\u2019t really solve any problems,\u201d said one diplomat involved in drafting the EU\u2019s position. \u201cIt doesn\u2019t take us over the line. We are ships passing each other in the night. We are not connecting.\u201d Ale\u0161 Chmela\u0159, the Czech Republic\u2019s state secretary for European affairs, said: \u201cWe all want a good deal but it really does depend on the UK\u2019s red lines.\u201d An hour-and-a-half \u201cwrap-up\u201d meeting of EU diplomats for the EU27 \u2013 who have been discussing the bare bricks of a future deal since December \u2013 concluded shortly before May\u2019s speech started on Friday. However, sources said it was unthinkable that the basic thrust of the EU\u2019s position would be altered by the prime minister\u2019s words. It will be made clear that the call for a mutual recognition of regulatory frameworks and Swiss-style membership of EU agencies, including the European aviation safety agency, will not be possible with the UK outside the single market. In the field of financial services, which is key to the British economy, the UK\u2019s demand for a \u201ccollaborative, objective framework that is reciprocal, mutually agreed, and permanent\u201d to give certainty over the future for service providers in the City will go wanting. The EU is expected to link access to UK waters for its fishing fleet to British seafood exporters having tariff-free access to the European market. On a trip to see Danish fisherman in Jutland on Saturday, Michel Barnier warned that the British fishing industry could lose access to the European market if EU fishermen lost access to UK fishing waters. The two things \u201care clearly linked,\u201d the EU\u2019s chief negotiator said. \u201cOur access to British waters and the British access to our market.\u201d"
"18||Letter: Ian Aitken obituaryI was working on the news desk of the Guardian when Ian Aitken joined the paper in 1964. We soon developed a warm relationship in our nightly discussions of goings-on at Westminster. One night Ian told me that a growth behind one of his eyes might be cancerous and that the only way to be sure was to have the eye removed. He eventually opted for the operation and quietly vanished from the Westminster rota. In the event the growth turned out to be benign, but he had lost the eye. He resumed his job with no evidence of impairment, and so continued for another couple of decades."
"10||'It can be a legacy': Democrats urge Trump not to retreat on gun controlSenate Democrats have appealed to Donald Trump not to retreat from his surprise expression this week of support for gun control measures, in the aftermath of the shooting at a high school in Parkland, Florida, in which 17 people were killed. At a White House meeting on Wednesday, Trump stunned Republicans and gun rights advocates when he expressed enthusiasm for positions long espoused by Democrats. He also castigated Republicans for being \u201cpetrified\u201d of the National Rifle Association and said in cases of people with mental health problems, the government should \u201ctake the guns first, go through due process second\u201d. But on Thursday, the president met in the Oval Office with leaders of the NRA. The gun rights lobbying group endorsed Trump for president and gave more than $30m to his election campaign, in turn receiving a promise of political fealty in a speech last year. After the meeting Chris Cox, executive director of the NRA\u2019s lobbying arm, tweeted: \u201cPOTUS &amp; VPOTUS support the second amendment, support strong due process and don\u2019t want gun control.\u201d Trump tweeted that the meeting had been \u201cgreat\u201d. On Sunday, the Connecticut senator Chris Murphy told ABC\u2019s This Week: \u201cThe president is trying to have it both ways. I think he knows that the mood of the country has shifted.\u201d Led by student survivors of the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas high school on 14 February, national pressure for reform on issues including background checks and the availability of military style semi-automatic rifles has grown. Murphy, who represents the families of 20 young children and six adults killed at Sandy Hook elementary school in 2012, predicted an electoral cost in the midterm elections this year. \u201c[Trump\u2019s] instincts in that meeting are not wrong,\u201d he said, \u201cand if he and Republicans don\u2019t start showing some movement \u2026 there aren\u2019t going to be as many Republicans around for him come 2019.\u201d Another Democratic senator, Joe Manchin of West Virginia, told CNN\u2019s State of the Union he believed the president would sign his bill to boost background checks, co-sponsored with the Pennsylvania Republican Pat Toomey, if it made it to his desk. \u201cIt\u2019s up to the president, truly,\u201d he said. \u201cThat can be a legacy for him.\u201d On CBS\u2019s Face the Nation, Manchin added: \u201cPresident Trump coming forth to something like this and putting his support behind will give Republicans enough cover to support this in the most reasonable responsible way.\u201d But on CNN he said his bill would not pass if it included measures on controlling access to assault rifles of the kind supported by the California Democrat Dianne Feinstein, another Trump suggestion. Manchin and Toomey first introduced their bill in the aftermath of Sandy Hook. Senate Republicans filibustered it. The majority leader, Mitch McConnell, has said he will not allow a gun control debate next week. On Saturday, a ban on assault weapons briefly appeared to have passed the Florida state senate, where lawmakers conducted a marathon session. A voice vote, senators shouting \u201cyea\u201d or \u201cnay\u201d, appeared to pass the Democratic-supported measure, the Tampa Bay Times reported. A more formal roll call vote then returned a 21-17 victory for Republicans opposed to such a ban. One Republican state senator, David Simmons, put his opposition in historically questionable terms. \u201cAdolf Hitler,\u201d he said, \u201cconfiscated all the weapons \u2013 took all the weapons, had a registry of everybody \u2013 and then on the night of 30 June 1934, sent out his secret police and murdered all of his political opponents,\u201d Simmons said. \u201cYou think it doesn\u2019t happen in a free society? It does.\u201d The state senate agreed to advance a bill that would increase school safety and restrict gun purchases. A Democratic proposal to ban large-capacity magazines was also rejected, as was a proposal to strip from the bill language that would create a program to arm teachers who have gone through law-enforcement training. Florida\u2019s Republican governor, Rick Scott, wants to assign at least one law-enforcement officer for every 1,000 students at a school. Scott is opposed to arming teachers, an NRA-backed policy for which Trump has repeatedly expressed support. The Florida legislature wraps up its annual session on Friday and lawmakers are scrambling to take some kind of action. The house has yet to take up the bill. On a national level, Manchin agreed with the CNN host Jake Tapper that there was \u201ca high probability\u201d no gun law reform will be passed at all."
"6||Six world track medals bode well for Great Britain\u2019s Olympic hopesThe Great Britain cycling team has had its moments on the velodrome in the Dutch town of Apeldoorn, which is where Laura Kenny, n\u00e9e Trott, made her international breakthrough in 2010 and where a year later the team began its final march on London 2012 with some hard talking from the coaches. Midway to Tokyo, a haul of five medals in Olympic events on the Dutch track and third in the medal table with six medals overall was a distinct improvement on last year\u2019s performance in Hong Kong. On Sunday afternoon the world track championships closed with a stirring ride in the Madison for Mark Stewart and Ollie Wood, who ended up only a few metres short of a medal. Agonisingly, had the pair finished second rather than third in the final sprint of a dramatically fast 50 kilometres, that would have enabled them to snaffle the bronze medal from a strong Australian team of Cameron Mayer and Callum Scotson. The team\u2019s week was headlined by gold medals in the men\u2019s team pursuit, traditionally a strength, and for Emily Nelson and Katie Archibald in the women\u2019s Madison \u2013 in only its second ever running. But there were three silver medals which held some significance in the context of the Olympic cycle. The women\u2019s team pursuit is another British medal banker and the quartet\u2019s silver here on Thursday marked Kenny\u2019s return to international competition after the birth of her son, Albert. The other third of Team Kenny, Laura\u2019s husband Jason, was also making his comeback after the best part of two years away since Rio \u2013 and he did so with silver for the men\u2019s team along with Jack Carlin and Ryan Owens. For a man who is rarely at his best mid-cycle, and who had actually gone into retirement for more than a year, coming back to anchor the team in the Man Three position was not to be underestimated. Similarly Carlin\u2019s silver medal in the solo match sprint holds huge promise for a 20-year-old, as does his fifth place in the keirin. Even when Sir Chris Hoy was in his pomp, the men\u2019s sprint squad never enjoyed such strength in depth. In men\u2019s and women\u2019s endurance, and men\u2019s sprint, there is strength in depth two years from Tokyo. Along with Carlin, Owens and Kenny, Philip Hindes, Joe Truman and Callum Skinner remain in the mix in men\u2019s sprint. After Elinor Barker\u2019s omnium crash \u2013 which possibly cost her a medal \u2013 Nelson stepped up in the Madison, without looking out of place alongside Archibald; the team pursuit called on a fifth rider in Ellie Dickinson, while the \u201cfifth\u201d rider from Rio, Ciara Horne, remains on the comeback trail. The men\u2019s endurance will gain in numbers as road specialists such as Mark Cavendish put their hats in the ring as Tokyo beckons, although the final selection of five could be a conundrum, including, as it must, a strong Madison pairing. For the moment, however, the team pursuit squad still has a distinctly experimental look about it, with relative newcomers such as the former sprinter Kian Emadi, the academy rider Ethan Hayter and Team KGF\u2019s Charlie Tanfield. Great Britain\u2019s perennial rivals Australia were absent from Apeldoorn but even so, for the Britons a time of 3min 53sec for the gold medal looks fast at this point in the Olympic cycle. The big gap is in women\u2019s sprint, where there were no medals in Holland. Katy Marchant, a bronze medallist in Rio, has yet to repeat that form, and Victoria Barnes (nee Williamson) is still recovering from a serious crash she had in January 2016. The academy rider Lauren Bate competed in Holland alongside Marchant but Becky James\u2019s retirement while still in her prime has clearly left a gap which the team may struggle to fill in the next two years."
"10||Trump aides defend tariffs move as Europe and China decry 'trade war'White House officials fanned out on Sunday to support Donald Trump\u2019s planned imposition of tariffs on aluminium and steel imports, describing it as a national security issue. Amid international consternation, and with the British prime minister, Theresa May, expressing \u201cdeep concern\u201d, critics said the move was a needless provocation of allies and enemies alike. One Democratic senator said targeting China could damage attempts to reduce tensions with nuclear-armed North Korea. A senior Chinese official said the tariffs could \u201cdamage bilateral relations and bring about consequences that neither country wants to see\u201d. Peter Navarro, director of the White House National Trade Council, confirmed that China was the focus of Trump\u2019s surprise decision, announced at the White House this week. \u201cChina is at the root of the problem,\u201d Navarro told CNN\u2019s Face the Nation. \u201cChina has tremendous overcapacity in both aluminium and steel. They flood the world market and this whittles down to our shores.\u201d Trump\u2019s announcement triggered deep divisions in his own economic team. It was also condemned by World Trade Organisation (WTO) and US allies including Canada and South Korea, which between them account for a quarter of US steel imports. China accounts for just 2%. Navarro insisted Trump\u2019s decision, which could be brought into effect as soon as next week, was \u201cquintessential and great\u201d. It was \u201cunlikely\u201d the administration would agree any national exemptions, he said, adding: \u201cThis is an action to protect our national, economic security. We can\u2019t have a country that can defend itself and prosper without an aluminium and steel industry.\u201d There would, however, be a business \u201cexemption procedure for particular cases \u2026 so that business can move forward\u201d, Navarro said. Navarro denied that Trump was considering withdrawing from the WTO although he said the body was \u201ca lot of the problem\u201d and needed to change with the times. The White House, he said, was focused on trading conditions that had been unfairly skewed for decades. Pointing the finger directly at China, he said Trump had sent a strong signal. \u201cWe\u2019re not going to take it any more,\u201d he said. \u201cWe have the lowest tariffs in the world and what we get from that is not fair and reciprocal trade, we get half a trillion dollars a year trade deficit that puts our wealth and jobs offshore. \u201cA lot of the problem has been the World Trade Organisation. We don\u2019t get good results there, and a lot of them don\u2019t like us. We\u2019re free-traders, we\u2019re fair and reciprocal traders, and the World Trade Organisation needs to change with the times.\u201d Trump\u2019s commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross, told NBC\u2019s Meet the Press he had \u201cno reason to believe\u201d the president would change his mind on tariffs, as he has on a number of policies. He added: \u201cI don\u2019t know why anybody should be so shocked.\u201d But he tempered his comments, saying: \u201cEverybody talks about tariffs as the first thing. Tariffs are the last thing. Tariffs are a part of the negotiation. The real trick is going to be increase American exports.\u201d On ABC\u2019s This Week, Ross dismissed the effect of threatened reciprocal European Union tariffs on such American products as Harley-Davidson motorcycles, Levi\u2019s jeans and Kentucky bourbon whiskey \u201cas nothing more than a rounding error\u201d. Among Democrats, the Connecticut senator Chris Murphy warned against starting a trade war with China when the the US needs support to resolve North Korea\u2019s nuclear ambition. A trade battle with Europe, he said, would be \u201ca gift to Russia\u201d. \u201cThe president needs to understand that targeted sanctions are necessary but you have to do it at the right moment and realise that none of it takes place in a vacuum,\u201d Murphy said. Trump\u2019s proposals have received measured support from the Pentagon, which has said it supports the move but would prefer a targeted rather a unilateral system. The defense secretary, James Mattis, has voiced concern over the impact on allies. The White House said on Friday that Trump had held calls with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, and French president, Emmanuel Macron. Britain\u2019s May said on Sunday she had spoken to Trump. The cabinet office minister David Lidington told the BBC: \u201cthe United States is not taking an advisable course\u201d and added: \u201cTrade wars don\u2019t do anybody any good.\u201d The decision has also inflamed rifts within the White House. The chief economic adviser, Gary Cohn, reportedly called the tariffs \u201cobviously stupid\u201d, and has been said to be close to resigning. Senior Republicans in Congress, committed to party orthodoxy on free trade, have decried the move. On Sunday the South Carolina senator Lindsey Graham told CBS\u2019s Face the Nation Trump was making \u201cmaking a huge mistake\u201d and should \u201cgo after China, not the rest of the world\u201d. Overnight, an official in Beijing said China would defend its interests. The Chinese vice-foreign minister, Zhang Yesui, said negotiations and mutual opening of markets were the best ways to resolve trade conflicts. \u201cChina does not want to fight a trade war with the United States but we absolutely will not sit by and watch as China\u2019s interests are damaged,\u201d said Zhang, a spokesman for parliament and formerly an ambassador to the US. \u201cIf policies are made on the basis of mistaken judgments or assumptions, it will damage bilateral relations and bring about consequences that neither country wants to see.\u201d"
"2||Barcelona 1-0 Atl\u00e9tico Madrid: La Liga \u2013\u00a0as it happenedThanks for joining me! It was an intense old game at the Nou Camp, so my fingers are killing me. Until we meet again! (Maybe at some point int he next week). Will Atletico be annoyed they did not give it more of a go in the first-half? They might have worn Barca down if they\u2019d been more proactive for the opening 45 minutes as the hosts were struggling to cope with the pressure late on and would have conceded if it weren\u2019t for Costa\u2019s leg being the wrong side of the line. And City are winning! What a day! And the lamb is in the oven! And there is wine! No hay Liga! It is only fair that a game of this pressure and intensity was settled by a goal of pure quality from a man who continually makes the difference for Barcelona. The hosts dominated the opening half, while after the break it was all Atletico but they failed to create a decent chance in the 45 minutes despite having the majority of the possession, meaning they will be left to rue one needless foul which allowed Messi to score a stunning free-kick. Is the title race over? 90+3 min: Oblak sends the ball long down the pitch to the opposition area but it is sent back from whence it came. 90+2 min: The home fans are waving their flags and singing in a victorious manner. Is it too early? 90 min: Saurez wins a free-kick in the corner from Godin, the striker knew what he was doing with that and has wasted some valuable time. Three minutes added on! 88 min: Atletico\u2019s yellow shirts look like they are outnumbering Barcelona when the visitors attack. Surely there will be one more chance... 86 min: NO GOAL! Gameiro smashes the ball into the back of the net after a knockdown from Costa but the assistant puts his flag to rightly point out the former Chelsea man was an inch offside. Could be an effective method for Atletico to create chances, though. 84 min: Paulinho is coming on for Coutinho as Valverde backs the more defensively-minded Brazilian for the closing stages. This is pretty intense, I will need wine later. 83 min: Suarez is the latest striker to go down in the box after he was stopped when trying to work his way through on goal. He is still down, rubbing his left knee. Is his race run? 82 min: Costa tries to spin after receiving the ball in the box, but instead of trying to do something with the possession he just throws himself to the floor in the desperate hope the referee will be fooled into awarding a penalty. Get up, Diego! 80 min: Coutinho drifts in from the left, through two defenders who were left bamboozled by the Brazilian\u2019s quick feet but his run into the box is stopped by a left shoulder, though the referee sees no ill. 78 min: Messi sends a free-kick to the back post where Busquets is waiting. The midfielder watches the ball go over everyone and then smashes a volley with his left foot but Oblak does not flinch and palms it away. 76 min: Suarez gets the ball into the back of the net but it is rightly ruled out for offside. After a corner was cleared the Uruguayan did a little bit of goalhanging so when the ball was headed back into the box he steered it home but he was definitely off. Messi then has a good chance as he shoots from 25 yards but it is deflected over. Game on! 75 min: Griezmann tries to go round Umiti but he instead just runs into his fellow Frenchman in the vague hope he is rewarded a free-kick. The referee sees no foul and waves play on. Mark emails from Peru, which is novel. He says: \u201cI\u2019ve used it on the few occasions Barsa isn\u2019t on teevee here in Peru, worst commentator in the world. \u201cHey, you see that goal by Messi today? Rather good, no?\u201d It was bloody, ruddy great. 72 min: Atletico are really on top here and Simeone is hoping to take advantage by bringing on Lucas Hernandez for the final 20 minutes. Where will he fit in? 69 min: Costa takes Atletico up the pitch and the attack is stopped as Rakitic fouls Correa, which the referee books him for. Atletico have a free-kick from slightly further out than from where Messi scored but his chipped cross results in Godin being punished for a foul. 68 min: Gomes tries to take on the entire Atletico midfield who was being patronised, he fails to do so and is patronised by the home crowd. Not a popular man in this blog or at the Nour Camp. Poor Andre... Paul writes: \u201cPlaying gomes is akin to playing with 10 men. Players and crowd don\u2019t seem to fancy him and he seems to hide as far away from the game as that white line will allow.\u201d 67 mins: Another change for Atletico as Gameiro is brought on for Gabi, allowing them to play a proper front two. Will the struggling Pique be able to cope? Tom is ashamed, he says: \u201cNot proud, but watching this on a dodgy stream, Barca have a player by the name of Kwhlewithhhhhhhhhhh Schhhhhhhhhhwwwwwarthethhhhhhhhhhh according to the commentator!\u201d Not sure I even know who he means. 64 min: Role reversals in this half as Barcelona are the team waiting to counter on Atletico. This could be a pretty interesting last 25 minutes or so. 62 min: COSTA IS HOLDING HIS FACE! Atletico have a free-kick after Umtiti challenged him illegally. Umtiti is laughing at how pathetic Costa is as there was barely any contact. The set-piece comes to nothing. 60 min: Atletico Madrid win a corner as they took advantage of Barcelona being one man down temporarily. After a half-clearance the ball is looped back into the box and Saul heads into Ter Stegen\u2019s arms which sort of counts as a shot. 58 min: Messi takes the free-kick from 20 yards out but this time he hits it straight at the wall, which is a surprise. Correa is coming on for Vrsaljko while Pique is struggling with a knee problem for the hosts. 57 min: Barcelona break on Atletico as Messi leads the charge towards all the box but it comes to an abrupt end as Rakitic is hilariously bodychecked by Gimenez just outside the area. 54 min: All very even at the moment as Atletico look to be playing higher. Suarez is trying to take advantage of this by permanently waiting on the last man, hoping for a ball over the top to chase. 51 min: There is now some intent from the visitors who have finally realised that if they want to score they will need to attack Barcelona. They might even force Ter-Stegen into a save soon. 49 min: Atletico have some possession in the final third which was rarely seen in the opening 45 minutes but they can\u2019t make anything after Saul is ruled offside after the ball is launches towards him. 47 min: Messi sees off Gabi midway inside the Atletico half, he then plays the ball into Suarez who decides to play the ball back to Messi rather than shoot but his pass is array and Atletico clear. 46 min: Here we go again! No changes at the break for either side. The players are back out on the pitch! Could be a fascinating 45 minutes. Are there any more angles of the Messi free-kick? Think I\u2019ve seen them all about from one from his boot itself. Poor Diego... John has been in touch... Getting my fill of 15 minutes of Manchester City v Chelsea. I am a City fan so really sacrificing a lot for your enjoyment. I suspect is doing more than me for your Sunday afternoon, though. How do Atletico get back into this one? Is Fernando Torres the answer? Probably not. They need to get on the ball into midfield in order to feed Griezmann and Costa who have barely had a kick between them. Your answers will be better than mine, I am sure. Barcelona have dominated from the start and thoroughly deserve to be in the lead and it was a wonderful goal which made it 1-0. The paucity of superlatives left describe Messi is embarrassing our profession and that\u2019s full great to the great man. 45 min: Barcelona are calmly playing out the finally few moments of the half as they keep hold of the ball to ensure they maintain their lead. Just one minute added on. 43min: Atletico play themselves into trouble as Godin sends a terrible pass straight to Sergi Roberto, who knocks it to Suarez only for Godin to recover and tackle his compatriot. The corner is whipped in but Pique heads it over the bar. 41 min: Atletico will be happy to go in just one goal down, allowing to create a Plan B as their currently offering will does not look like it will bring them a goal or even a shot. 600 goals is just silly, isn\u2019t it? 39 min: Messi leads the charge towards the Atletico box before laying a pass to Gomes in space on the right. The Portuguese takes the ball into the box but then sends a pathetic cross straight into the arms of Oblak, much to the annoyance of the home fans. I have never seen Gomes have a good game for Barca. 37 min: Gomes gets involved by battling for the ball in the opposition box before working it out to Roberto. Barcelona play it across the pitch to Coutinho who works his way into the area and fires in a shot with his left foot from 12 yards but Oblak stands tall and punches it clear. 35 min: Iniesta passes the ball out, takes off his captain\u2019s armband and heads to the touchline as his game is curtailed by injury. In his place we have Andre Gomes, which is in some ways a like-for-like swap even it wasn\u2019t for the fact the Portuguese is half the player that Iniesta is. Paul points out that Messi has the advantage before he\u2019s even taken the free-kick, he says: \u201cThe problem with Messi\u2019s free kicks is that his repertoire means the keepers cant move until they see it properly which is usually once its past the wall.\u201d 32 min: Suarez breaks into the box and directs a shot at goal from 10 yards, but Gimenez blocks it and he complains that about the use of a hand, though the referee cares little for the protestations. 31 min: A yellow for Vrsaljko as he trips Suarez after the defender is turned by the striker. Been a few feisty challenges so it won\u2019t be the last card. 29 min: Filipe Luis and Messi clash resulting in both hitting the deck. The Barcelona man looks hurt and is holding his ankle, while he\u2019s on the floor he is booked for his efforts. Messi caught Luis with a late tap on the ankle, so it is all fair. The official Guardian view on that goal... GOAL! Atletico are punished for a needless foul 30 yards from goal as Messi steps up and curls his shot over the wall and gets it to perfectly dip and curl into the top corner, meaning Oblak can only palm it into the net. A truly stunning free-kick for Messi\u2019s 600th career goal. What a free-kick from Messi! Kari seems to be influence by Bart Simpson with his \u201cBARcelona v aTleticO should be called El Barto: suggestion. 24 min: Iniesta has jogged back on, which is a confident move for someone with a muscular issue. Maybe he is just trying to lure Atletico into a false sense of security. Atletico fail to clear the ball, which lands at the feet of Coutinho but he bottles shooting first time and the visitors send it out for a corner. 22 min: Iniesta is down once again. Iniesta is just rubbing his hip in the hope of continuing. Actually, it looks like a hamstring problem. Game over! 21 min: Messi receives the ball 25 yards from goal, he is quickly surrounded by three Atletico players but somehow he flicks the ball between then all, spins to take it towards goal but his shot from 20 yards out was straight at Messi. How on earth did he beat all those men? No beer here... 19 min: Iniesta is on the ground with a hip problem after challenging Saul for a header. The Barcelona man hit the ground hard after a big leap to beat his opponent to the ball. He gets up and is fine, which is a relief to all the home fans. 18 min: Diego Costa is flagged offside but it was very close. This is about as much as he\u2019s done in the game so far. He will need to be patient today as Atletico do not look like they will be seeing much of the bal in the opposition half. 17 min: Two balls on the pitch! Whatever next? 15 min: Barcelona have had a couple of miss-placed in the last few minutes with Busquets and Messi the culprits of sending the ball nowhere near their team-mates. Barcelona are not rattled but they know they are in a game here. It could work... 13 min: Suarez is fouled on the edge of the box by Gabi after the Atletico man kicked the Uruguayan in the calf, giving Barcelona a free-kick on the left. Messi takes the set-piece but it goes straight into the wall. 10 min: Atletico Madrid will look to play on the break it seems. They are happy to let Barcelona have the ball for now. The visitors are working really hard while absorbing a lot of possession. Griezmann is doing his fair share of defensive work. 8 min: Iniesta lifts a straight ball into the box allowing Suarez to challenge Oblak but the referee\u2019s whistle blows after some unconvincing working from the goalkeeper. It seems Suarez pushed Gimenez over in the build-up. 6 min: Barcelona are having all of the ball at the moment. A short corner is played into the box and after the odd ricochet is ends up with Coutinho who has a shot which deflects towards the goal but Oblak reacts well and holds on. 5 min: It looks like Partey is playing as deep as he can without becoming an extra defender. His eyes are focused on where Messi is wandering and the midfielder will not let the Barcelona No 10 get too far from him. Iniesta looks up for this one and he will be key if Barcelona are going to win this one! 3 min: Vrsaljko gets in with a classic \u2018you\u2019re in a game foul\u2019 on Iniesta an he needless brings down the Spaniard when he tries to turn the defender near the halfway line. Matt emails to ask: \u201cI think the most pressing question on all of our minds is: what will you be having with your lamb? Roast potatoes, greens, a healthy helping of gravy, and a generous portion of mint sauce? Remember, there *are* wrong answers.\u201d Controversially, I have never been a huge fan of full roast dinners, it can all be a bit too much. So the lamb will be roasted in garlic and rosemary, which will then be served with some cous cous, bejewelled with dried fruit, roast peppers and herbs. 1 min: Here we go at the Nou Camp! There is a minute\u2019s silence for Quini now. A former Pichichi winner while at Barcelona and fondly remembered by all at the club. Here come the teams both wearing some lovely jackets that are available for a silly fee in the club shops and other sporting goods outlets. And here is Sid Lowe on Barcelona legend Quini. What a tale! I am also going to Barcelona later this month but will probably go to watch Girona instead but it just seems more fun to watch City\u2019s reserves. Girona is nicer than Barcelona, right? We\u2019re almost ready! I am well placed to write about this game as I explained to a family of Spanish tourists staying at a flat in my building how to open the door to get out this week. They loved my Spanish instructions and then got to exit and enjoy the snow. Seeing as these two are the best teams in the league, should we come up with a title for the game? El clasico is saved for Barcelona v Real Madrid but maybe something less grandiose would be appropriate. El partidazo or similar? Obviously, you can contact me in the usual places, with the details being at the top of the page. You can ask me about the lovely soccer or the roast lamb I hope to find when I get home. Sid Lowe has been writing about some of La Liga\u2019s overachievers. Will one end up in Europe? Lionel Messi has 34 goals in 44 games this season for club and country, which is once again an incredible tally for an individual. There is no doubting how much Barcelona have needed to rely on their Argentine maestro throughout the campaign with Suarez starting the season poorly and the lack of a third forward following Neymar\u2019s exit and Dembele\u2019s injuries. Griezmann looks to be back to his best now that he has been joined by Costa in attack, which is a worrying thought for Barcelona. The Catalans are keen on bringing the Frenchman to the Nou Camp in the summer, even though Valverde distanced himself from a deal this week but that\u2019s just him being very polite ahead of a crucial match. Messi v Griezmann: who will win? Atletico did win the league at the Nou Camp in 2014 thanks to a draw. It was a glorious day for the club. Although Simeone has never lost to Valverde in 12 games, he has not actually beaten Barcelona in La Liga in 12 matches, so there is a good chance one of those records will go later on today. Or it might just be a boring draw. Is this the biggest game of the day? Matt thinks differently... Both clubs have sent their condolences following the tragic news today of Davide Astori\u2019s passing. Diego Simeone can boast not lost in 12 encounters with Valverde, which is a pretty decent record. The Argentine now just wants to keep the title race alive until the last possible moment. \u201cWe have always competed and we will be competitive again on Sunday,\u201d Simeone said. \u201cThe game is important, against a rival with numbers that speak for themselves. \u201cWe still have to go to Villarreal and Real Madrid. There are 12 games left and we are all competing for something. \u201cThe points (on Sunday) are important because they give us a (smaller) margin and that makes us better able to handle what\u2019s left.\u201d Barcelona head coach Ernesto Valverde has played down the importance of the match at the Nou camp, claiming it will not be the decider. \u201cIt\u2019s not a final for LaLiga,\u201d Valverde said. \u201cIt will be an important three points to the winners, but not decisive. \u201cWe are two strong teams and the three points are worth a lot.\u201d That does not help with us building this up to be the biggest game of the season but I can confirm it definitely is! Barcelona: Ter Stegen, Sergi Roberto, Piqu\u00e9, Umtiti, Jordi Alba, Busquets, Iniesta, Rakitic, Coutinho, Messi, Suarez. Subs: Cillessen, Demb\u00e9l\u00e9, Paulinho, Paco Alc\u00e1cer, Digne, Andr\u00e9 Gomes, Vermaelen. Atletico Madrid: Oblak, Vrsaljko, Gimenez, Godin, Filipe Luis, Gabi, Partey, Saul, Koke, Griezmann, Costa Subs: Werner, Lucas, Juanfran, Vitolo, Correa, Torres, Gameiro. Will will be here shortly."
"19||Balenciaga's big idea: this season's fashion will benefit UN charityFashion\u2019s most influential designer is sick of putting meaningless graphics on T-shirts. \u201cI am tired of making prints for the sake of prints,\u201d said Demna Gvasalia, backstage at his Balenciaga show in Paris on Sunday. \u201cAt this stage, if I do a T-shirt or a jersey it needs to have something more to it.\u201d Given that a T-shirt printed with the DHL logo was the item that originally brought Gvasalia and his design collective, Vetements, to the world\u2019s attention, this proclamation will pique the fashion industry\u2019s interest. Two years ago, when he started at Balenciaga, Gvasalia\u2019s ironic, street-smart aesthetic seemed an odd fit for a house best known for its association with Audrey Hepburn. But his impressive hits \u2013 the oversized anoraks copied on every high street; the sell-out \u201cugly chic\u201d Triple S trainers \u2013 have proved the pairing\u2019s wisdom. This season\u2019s big idea had a serious message: Balenciaga collaborated with the World Food Programme on a series of logo baseball caps, bumbags and T-shirts, using the same \u201cfree corporate awayday merch\u201d aesthetic that has become a house signature. \u201cIf I can do something that actually engages and makes some difference...\u201d said Gvasalia, explaining that Balenciaga had donated $250,000 (\u00a3180,000) and will give 10% of the retail price of each piece sold to the UN charity. \u201cIt was a very special project,\u201d he said. \u201cFor the first time I thought that fashion could be useful in a different way than just covering the body.\u201d The other graphics in the show were about \u201cusing fashion as a tool of communication\u201d too, albeit in weirder ways. Some shirts were printed with the phone number of a newly set up \u201cBalenciaga hotline\u201d, on which a recorded voice asks callers banal questions such as their favourite city and their shoe size. \u201cIt\u2019s a never-ending hotline, for people who have a lot of time,\u201d said Gvasalia, gnomically. With a snowy mountain set, and a neon-infused colour palette inspired by snowboarders in the 90s, the final theme was extreme weather, explored through silhouette. The show opened with a black mini dress, worn with bare legs and heels, and closed with gargantuan coats created from up to nine garments fused together. \u201cIt looks like you are wearing all of your wardrobe because it\u2019s really cold,\u201d said Gvasalia, \u201cbut it\u2019s actually one piece. We ended up with shapes that are extremely reminiscent of the house archive even though I used all the \u2018Demna\u2019 pieces \u2013 hoodies, parkas. This was my way of showing that this is the new Balenciaga; how I see it defined by me being there.\u201d Also on Sunday, British designer Clare Waight Keller presented her sophomore collection for Givenchy. Waight Keller replaced Riccardo Tisci, who was recently named creative director of Burberry. Her debut, in September, was met with a mixed critical reaction, but this follow-up was stronger. Building on the nighttime feel of an assured couture collection, shown in January, she took 80s Berlin as her theme, and showed a series of lush fake-fur coats, shimmering sequinned midi dresses with tough pointy boots and appealing monochrome tailoring. Waight Keller described the collection as gritty and said it had brought her a step closer to expressing her vision for Givenchy."
"15||Sky bidder Comcast labelled 'worst company in America'Comcast, which last week unveiled a \u00a322bn offer for Sky, has been labelled the \u201cworst company in America\u201d twice in recent years over shoddy customer service and pricing. It has also been involved in regulatory transgressions which legal experts believe means its plan to take over Sky should be closely scrutinised by watchdogs. The pay-TV firm, which is poised to formalise its bid to try to steal Sky from under Rupert Murdoch\u2019s nose, announced a $300m plan to spruce up customer service three years ago, but to little avail so far. Comcast was named \u201cAmerica\u2019s most-hated company\u201d in a respected customer satisfaction survey last year. On top of Comcast\u2019s poor reputation with consumers, it is the company\u2019s corporate transgressions that are most concerning to legal experts examining the merits of its potential takeover bid for Sky. In recent years, Comcast has been fined more than $2m (\u00a31.5m) by US regulators and was forced to relocate a rival news service nearer to its news channels on its TV guide, while one of its leading TV presenters was involved in a sex scandal. In November, NBC News host Matt Lauer, one of the best-paid TV presenters in the US, was fired after a complaint from a colleague about inappropriate sexual behaviour. In 2016, Comcast paid a $2.3m fine to resolve a federal investigation into allegations it added charges to customers\u2019 bills for unordered services, including premium channels, set-top boxes and digital video recorders. As a condition of Comcast\u2019s takeover of NBC Universal, the company agreed to a \u201cneighbourhooding\u201d rule to group similarly themed TV channels together to guard against potential anti-competitive or discriminatory behaviour. However, Comcast argued it did not need to relocate Bloomberg News, as it was not grouped with other news channels at the time of the merger. Bloomberg filed a complaint with the Federal Communications Commission which rejected Comcast\u2019s argument and ordered it to move the business channel alongside its own stations in the channel line-up. Comcast has pledged to \u201cmaintain Sky News\u2019s existing brand and culture, as well as its strong track record for high-quality impartial news and adherence to broadcasting standards\u201d. \u201cSky News is an invaluable part of the UK news landscape,\u201d Comcast said, when it announced its proposed bid for Sky last week. Comcast has experienced echoes of the Fox News scandal, which saw top host Bill O\u2019Reilly leave following accusations of sexual harassment. In November, NBC News host Matt Lauer, one of the best-paid TV presenters in the US, was fired after a complaint from a colleague about inappropriate sexual behaviour. \u201cComcast has been found by US antitrust enforcers to have the opportunity and incentive to harm consumers and competition by favouring its own content, raising prices for rivals and potentially interfering with broadband transmission,\u201d said Gene Kimmelman, the former chief counsel for competition policy at the US Antitrust Division during the Obama administration. \u201cBased on our experience in the US, it is likely that UK competition officials would have significant concerns about whether Comcast may harm competition and drive up consumer prices through an acquisition of all or the majority of Sky assets.\u201d Comcast has already been in regulatory hot water in the UK with a string of breaches of the broadcasting code in recent years. A four-year investigation by Ofcom found that CNBC, BBC World News and CNN International repeatedly breached rules on sponsored and free content funded by governments, NGOs and charities. The international news channels broke the rules on sponsorship and current affairs programming almost 50 times between 2009 and 2011, Ofcom found. In 2015, NBC Universal-owned channel E! Entertainment was fined \u00a340,000 by Ofcom for broadcasting episodes of Girls of the Playboy Mansion when children were likely to be watching. Legal experts believe these transgressions mean its takeover of Sky should be scrutinised just as closely by UK regulators as Rupert Murdoch\u2019s has been. Murdoch\u2019s \u00a311.7bn bid to buy the 61% of Sky he does not already own has been the subject of intense regulatory scrutiny since being announced almost 18 months ago. 21st Century Fox\u2019s bid has been subjected to investigation by Ofcom and the Competition Markets Authority over its commitment to broadcasting standards, compliance and high editorial standards in the UK and US. This was prompted by issues including sexual misconduct, harassment and corporate failure at Fox News in the US, the potential \u201cFoxification\u201d of Sky News and the ongoing issue of phone hacking dogging Murdoch and his son, James. The CMA and Ofcom, which found the Murdochs were \u201cfit and proper\u201d owners of a licence to run Sky, cleared Fox on broadcasting standards. Comcast has said it does not foresee any media plurality or regulatory issues in taking over Sky. Brian Roberts, the chief executive and son of the company\u2019s founder, added that Comcast was a \u201cproven steward\u201d of the businesses it owns. Earlier this week, Tom Watson, the shadow culture secretary, said any new bidders for Sky that emerge should be carefully vetted. Comcast declined to comment. \u2022This article was amended on 5 March 2018 to correctly report that Comcast was named worst company in America twice in recent years, not two years running as we reported earlier. This article was also amended to better explain the legal dispute with Bloomberg TV over Comcast\u2019s placement of the news channel in the TV guide and how the dispute was resolved."
"15||Michele Hanson: kind, clever, eccentric and swearyMichele Hanson\u2019s sudden death (she would have had no time for eggshelly words like \u201cpassing\u201d) has been a profound shock to all her colleagues at the Guardian, her readers and, most of all, those who loved her. Since the news broke on Saturday, many readers who did not have the privilege to know her well have said that they felt as though they did. \u201cShe was VIVID\u201d, one acquaintance of hers wrote to me, and that was the exact word for her. As a person, she was all of the things that you would hope to be called after you were gone: kind, clever and funny, clearly devoted to her loved ones, not to mention the dogs she adored. She was also eccentric, fun, sweary and had no patience for dreks (a Yiddish with a loose translation of shits). As a writer, her voice jumped from the page, commanding that you paid attention to it. Despite this, it was never peremptory or condescending. Her writing was warm, confiding, shot through with a compassion for the disadvantaged and the vulnerable that showed, too, off the page. It is because of this that Michele was one of the newspaper\u2019s most popular columnists. Not all writers are lucky enough to be in possession of a voice so singular, but she had it, and readers responded accordingly. They were always writing in to praise her columns on friendship, ageing, politics and everything in-between, with many remembering her from the days of her Treasure columns, which were devoted to her daughter Amy, of whom she was so very proud. I would often forward these emails to her and, when I worked on the letters desk, I would try and get these into print as often as possible. I liked being her secret ally, bigging her up from behind the scenes, especially as she sometimes seemed unaware of her talent and popularity, and occasionally anxious about her position. She needn\u2019t have worried. It is ironic that, in Michele\u2019s final piece of writing for this paper, she wrote in her typically forthright style on the topic of fearing a long, drawn-out death in a care home. \u201cOnly last week, while visiting my solicitor to organise power of attorney in case I am suddenly incapacitated or lose my marbles, I told him that I\u2019d rather hurl myself from my perch and drop dead than live in a care home.\u201d A blessing arising from her death is that she did not have to face that future, though of course we all wish that she were still here. On a more personal note, Michele was a friend and neighbour to me, as well as a colleague. We would often bump into each other and chat as she walked her dogs or would meet for tea, smoking sneaky fags in her garden under the auspices of her dispensing horticulture advice. Having admired a fine burro\u2019s tail plant at her house, she came round with cuttings. When I drank far too much at the Christmas party a couple of years ago, she took me home. Last December, knowing that I had recently been mugged, she insisted on driving me. That\u2019s what she was like: generous, caring. When I saw her, she was in a very happy mood, thrilled at her new, rebranded column, full of ideas. It is so sad that we will never get to read them. As a newish friend, I wish very much that I had had the fortune of knowing her longer. But I am also glad for the chance of knowing her at all. I am sure those who knew her through her writing feel the same. A JustGiving page has been launched in her memory."
"6||Rugby Australia should buy European club to tap into northern wealthIn an historic, yet largely unnoticed announcement, Raelene Castle revealed last Friday that Rugby Australia was exploring partnership arrangements with Japanese clubs. Castle\u2019s revelation was in response to New Zealand Rugby confirming it had entered into a partnership with English club Harlequins. The details of the Kiwis\u2019 partnership were a little vague, but it seemed there would be a mutually beneficial exchange of coaches, players and ideas between New Zealand and Harlequins. \u201cThis alignment will create significant opportunities for both sides, with players, coaches and staff able to learn from different environments with different people, challenges and cultures,\u201d NZR chief-executive Steve Tew said. While the partnership is an interesting concept, I would urge Rugby Australia to go one step further and buy or invest in a European club to tap into the huge reservoir of Australian talent playing overseas and to capitalise on the riches in the northern hemisphere. At present, Australians playing overseas are ineligible to play for the Wallabies unless they have reached a 60-Test threshold, which means the vast majority of Australians playing overseas cannot play for Australia. With the axing of the Western Force, there are now more Australian professional rugby players playing overseas than playing in Australia. If Rugby Australia acquired a club in England or France, it could populate it with Australian players, who would become eligible to play for the Wallabies whether they had payed 60 Tests or not. The team could be coached by an Australian coach, who could implement a program that was in synchronisation with the Wallabies. This would significantly increase the player pool for Wallabies selection, but perhaps more importantly, an investment in a European club would connect Australian rugby more directly to the wealth of the northern hemisphere. The value of broadcast rights have gone through the roof in European rugby, which makes investing in a team an attractive option. Most English and French clubs are privately owned or sponsored by millionaires and billionaires, which may put them out of reach of cash-strapped Rugby Australia. But Rugby Australia could use some of the $5m it saved from the axing of the Force to buy into an English or French club and create a \u201cboomerang\u201d pathway for expatriate Australians. This may seem far-fetched, but it is not exactly novel. Consider that South African Super Rugby franchise the Stormers have a stake in English club Saracens, while the Crusaders and the Canterbury Rugby Union recently bought into new American team the Seattle Seawolves. A few years ago an Australian consortium including former Wallabies coach Bob Dwyer and ex-Australian Test captain Rocky Elsom bought a second division French club in Narbonne. If they can do it, so too can Rugby Australia. Maybe \u201cTwiggy\u201d Forrest could even buy a European club in partnership with Rugby Australia and name it Northern Force. It could even work the other way by enticing rich European clubs to buy into financially struggling Australian Super Rugby teams in the same way English soccer giant Manchester City acquired Melbourne Heart, re-branded Melbourne City. At the end of the day, something needs to be done about the player drain to Europe and Japan. The disparity in wealth between the northern and southern hemispheres will only grow wider, which means yet more Australians will head to greener paddocks. Perhaps this explains why Rugby Australia is exploring partnership opportunities in Japan where there is a plethora of Wallabies, All Blacks and Springboks. A number of current and ex-Wallabies played in the recent Japanese Top League grand final between Suntory Goliath (Matt Giteau and Sean McMahon) and Panasonic Wild Knights (David Pocock and Berrick Barnes). Okay, Pocock has returned to the Brumbies from his sabbatical, but McMahon has remained in Japan with doubts about his availability for the 2019 World Cup. Japan is relaxing its restrictions on foreign players even further, which means more players like McMahon will head up there. Any partnership deal between Rugby Australia and Japanese clubs must address this issue. Rugby, like every other business enterprise, now operates in a world of globalisation, which means Australian rugby must be alive to investment opportunities overseas. To be sure, any investment carries risk, but without risk there is no reward. If Australian rugby does not plug into wealth-creating opportunities in the north, the game in this country will fall further behind in the money-ball game."
"20||Our final Mardi Gras march \u2013 a photo essayDr Mark\u2019s Marching Academy marches in the Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras parade to highlight issues facing its community. Over the past 19 years, 2,500 people have been part of the group\u2019s float, while 6.1 million people have seen the float on the parade route. The group has been broadcast to more than 50 million viewers worldwide. This year was the float\u2019s final appearance, with the group citing the parade\u2019s growing commercialisation. Dr Mark who started Dr Mark\u2019s Marching Academy in 1998. This year dance coach Bradford Jefferies and a team of organisers planned to put on the best show yet, to farewell one of the most recognised floats in the parade. Jefferies said: \u201cHad I not witnessed community floats like ours, that began to transform how I saw myself and my sexuality, I would not be the person I am today. There are so many people this parade has an effect on and there are so many people that read stories and watch broadcasts of us from all over the world that see this as a bastion of hope. That we can celebrate who we are. That we are proud.\u201d This year, the group\u2019s theme was Ignite my Fire, encouraging the participants to be true to their own individual stories, and six of those stories stood out. We all have a shared story and a shared narrative by being in this float and in that, we have a shared solidarity. We all belong. We all have a place. And you are loved. Don\u2019t forget that \u2013 Bradford Jefferies Kym Doherty marched with her son in a previous Mardi Gras. He couldn\u2019t participate this year but she still wanted to take part. The spirit and sense of community is slowly being eroded from the parade. We have gone from a group of 400 to a group of 80. And community groups are continually pushed to the side to make way for commercial floats that have money to spend \u2013 Bradford Jefferies Amanda Jane Baus I am marching this year because this time last year I was fighting for my life undergoing chemo and radiation for lymphoma. I was pretty much at my worst and we had a small celebration at home. I told myself and my best friend, Claire, that we would march in 2018. That was my goal. It\u2019s such a great feeling to not only be alive but to be able to be a part of this amazing experience to celebrate love, equality and acceptance. To be able to be who you are without judgment. That\u2019s what it\u2019s all about. This was my first time marching in the parade and I also performed at the after party as one of 20 dancers chosen to open the show. This time last year I was not sure I would be here to see another Mardi Gras but I fought and I am now in remission. Tamara Mason in Hyde Park ahead of the march. Molly Taifik on the stairs at Hyde Park before the March Kelly Bassett, Nathan Kelly and Briana Charters-Wood We are marching this year because, as with most people in Sydney, we tend to come from different backgrounds and countries and, like many a Sydney tribe, our group became more than simply a group of friends and leaned further toward a family. Our Sydney family would do almost everything together and an extremely close bond was formed. One of the closest bonds was with myself and Dean Cobbe, who we would joke was my \u201csymbolic husband\u201d. Dean and myself would spend hours on the phone, weekends together, evenings together. When our Sydney tribe got together, Dean was always key to the dynamic of the group. In 2016 our close group took part in Mardi Gras and this was a huge deal for us as the message Mardi Gras presents is core to the values we all believe in so much. Dean, unfortunately, took his own life not so long ago and, after the tears had subsided, Nathan, Briana and I could think of no better way to celebrate Dean\u2019s energetic life than by taking part, once again, in Mardi Gras. Only this time without our Dean and instead dedicating it to his memory. Dr Mark\u2019s Dancing Academy during a pre-march rehearsal. Leanne Elliot Jay McAlister I am marching this year because before Mardi Gras I avoided LGBTIQ events like the plague. As a queer trans guy with mental illness, living in the \u201cnot as rainbow as it preaches\u201d city of Canberra, my dysphoria and anxiety were out of control. I was, and am, misgendered daily, so when I went to queer gatherings, continuing to be called \u201cshe\u201d and mistaken for a butch woman, I felt betrayed and rejected by the community that I was meant be accepted by. The idea of participating was rather forced upon me by my cousin two years ago \u2013 I got a text in December saying \u201cMerry Xmas, you\u2019re doing Dr Mark\u2019s with me!\u201d Usually I\u2019d overthink and convince myself not to, but I impulsively agreed and I wouldn\u2019t have it any other way. When I marched in the parade, it was the first time that I felt safe in a group of people and in my own community. I was euphoric. It is now over a year since I started my medical transition and a year since my first Mardi Gras. Needless to say, Mardi Gras will always hold a special place in my heart. Bradford Jefferies\u2019 whole family including his parents marched this year. Above, his sister, Jessica Rooker. Bon Kuil-Hartikainen and David Kuil-Hartikainen We are marching this year to celebrate being newlyweds, having our wedding three weeks ago. We shared the day with our close family and friends and we wanted to celebrate with the larger community being recognised as equal under the law. Coming off the back of a rough public vote for our rights, it almost feels like a victory lap in a strange way. In what will be our first year of marriage and Mardi Gras\u2019 40th anniversary, what better time to march and celebrate? Arlene Jefferies, Bradford\u2019s mother. Jason Bush marching with the Dr Mark\u2019s Dance Academy for his fourth year. Kevin Jefferies I am marching this year to show my support that it is never OK to take away an individual\u2019s rights \u2013 everyone has a right to choose and the parade is a celebration about returning this right through the recent law change. It is also an opportunity to support our son who has organised this float and brought together this team to help celebrate a new era. It is really important for me to be marching with my son to demonstrate how proud we are of him, the open relationship we have, that he has our total support and to acknowledge that he has a right to choose. It is not about what I may or may not think, this is about individual rights so I am pleased to be celebrating this momentous occasion in our history with Bradford. Maddi Button in the middle of the dance routine. Monica Ulibarri I\u2019m marching this year because, growing up in Mexico and attending Catholic school for 12 years, I never had any interaction with the gay and lesbian community \u2013 in fact, it was not accepted. When I worked at SBS, I had the fortune of working with several coworkers of the LGBTIQ \ufe0f community who invited me to participate in my first Mardi Gras in 2008. It was an eye opener. I felt so connected and so happy to support their right to be considered equal and to fight for their rights. This year marks the 10th anniversary of participating in the parade and Dr Mark\u2019s Marching Academy has been a wonderful group of people. I encourage all of us to \u201cignite\u201d the fire within us, be proud of who we are and support equality. Gina Kelly and Chrystie Klein We are marching this year to celebrate four years since the event that changed both our lives \u2013 Mardi Gras 2014 \u2013 one of us married with two children, the other a single lesbian from Melbourne. We met under the giant mirror ball in the Royal Hall of Industries at the start of the Mardi Gras after party. Our eyes locked, a flame ignited in both of us and we kissed before even speaking. We both knew at an incredibly profound level that we had found each other and were destined to be together even despite our circumstances. It was the most exciting and fabulous public event we had ever been a part of. Four years on, we are happily living together and plan to get married."
"16||'Global deforestation hotspot': 3m hectares of Australian forest to be lost in 15 yearsAustralia is in the midst of a full-blown land-clearing crisis. Projections suggest that in the two decades to 2030, 3m hectares of untouched forest will have been bulldozed in eastern Australia. The crisis is driven primarily by a booming livestock industry but is ushered in by governments that fail to introduce restrictions and refuse to apply existing restrictions. And more than just trees are at stake. Australia has a rich biodiversity, with nearly 8% of all Earth\u2019s plant and animal species finding a home on the continent. About 85% of the country\u2019s plants, 84% of its mammals and 45% of its birds are found nowhere else. But land clearing is putting that at risk. About three-quarters of Australia\u2019s 1,640 plants and animals listed by the government as threatened have habitat loss listed as one of their main threats. Much of the land clearing in Queensland \u2013 which accounts for the majority in Australia \u2013 drives pollution into rivers that drain on to the Great Barrier Reef, adding to the pressures on it. And of course land clearing is exacerbating climate change. In 1990, before short-lived land-clearing controls came into place, a quarter of Australia\u2019s total greenhouse gas emissions were caused by deforestation. Emissions from land clearing dropped after 2010 but are rising sharply again. \u201cIt has gotten so bad that WWF International put it on the list of global deforestation fronts, the only one in the developed world on that list,\u201d says Martin Taylor, the protected areas and conservation science manager at WWF Australia. In Queensland, where there is both the most clearing and the best data on clearing, trees are being bulldozed at a phenomenal rate. About 395,000 hectares of native vegetation were cleared there in 2015-16, 33% more compared with the previous year. And despite the re-elected Labor government promising changes to rein it in, notifications of planned land clearing in Queensland have jumped a further 30%, suggesting woodlands could be bulldozed even faster in coming years. To visualise what clearing of that magnitude looks like, Guardian Australia has created a tool that will lay an area that size over any location you choose. Mapped over Sydney, for example, 395,000 hectares covers an area stretching from the central coast in the north, to Campbeltown in the south, and the Blue Mountains in the west. That equates to more than 1,500 football fields worth of native woodland and scrub being cleared each and every day in Queensland. Stopping the clearing in Queensland is possible. Indeed, under its Labor premier Peter Beattie it brought its land clearing problem under control. Tough laws passed in 2004 meant that by 2010 land clearing had dropped to an all-time low of about 92,000 hectares. But when the Liberal National party\u2019s Campbell Newman was elected in 2012 he broke an election promise to keep the laws, gutted them, and introduced several ways for farmers to clear land easily. The bulldozers roared back into action immediately, bringing the state to the point it is at now. Queensland clears more land each year than the rest of Australia put together, and the rate at which it is destroying its vegetation is comparable with the infamous deforestation that occurs in the Brazilian Amazon. Brazil bulldozes about 0.25% of its part of the Amazon each year; Queensland clears about 0.45% of its remaining wooded areas. The recently re-elected Queensland Labor government has promised to change the laws. But in the meantime other states have begun to follow Queensland\u2019s lead. In 2016 the New South Wales Coalition government announced it was going to axe three pieces of legislation that protected native vegetation and wildlife, and replace them with a single act that would make land clearing easier. A conservation scientist from the University of Queensland, Hugh Possingham, sat on the NSW government\u2019s advisory board for the changes but resigned in protest, warning they could lead to a doubling of clearing rates in NSW. Possingham says exactly how much the laws will impact clearing rates is unclear, since there are other drivers of clearing, including climate and economics. \u201cBut if you look at Queensland, their example is so dramatic,\u201d he says of the effects of law changes there. Daisy Barham, from the Nature Conservation Council of NSW, says the final set of laws and regulations released are even worse than those that caused the land clearing crisis in Queensland. \u201cThere are some really extreme elements in the NSW laws that don\u2019t even feature in the Queensland laws,\u201d she says. Barham says the worst is the \u201cequity code\u201d which leaves few controls on clearing of properties under 100 hectares, and where protected vegetation makes up less than 10% of the property. Analysis by WWF shows that could allow clearing of 8m hectares, or 38% of the remaining trees in the state, under that rule alone. The changes took effect in August 2017 but so far the government has refused to release data on how much clearing has taken place. In fact, official state data hasn\u2019t been released since 2013-14, when about 30,000 hectares of trees were cleared in NSW. The area being cleared in there may seem small relative to Queensland, but NSW has a much smaller amount of remaining vegetation, with clearing there starting much earlier after colonisation. \u201cOnly 9% of NSW is in a healthy or near-natural condition,\u201d Barham says. \u201cWe simply don\u2019t have much left to lose. That is why every bit of clearing in NSW is so important.\u201d Meanwhile, further north, vast tracts of land are being earmarked for clearing. In the relatively lawless Northern Territory, approvals for land clearing have jumped more than tenfold in the past two years, compared with the preceding 12 years, according to figures from the NT government analysed by the Wilderness Society. Some of the clearing approved for single properties in the NT is almost unimaginable in size. A property called Tipperary station has a total of 50,687 hectares approved for clearing through a number of separate applications over the past six years, an area almost 10 times the size of Manhattan on one property. David Morris, a lawyer who was chief executive of the Environmental Defenders Office NT until earlier this year, says the overarching feature of the Northern Territory\u2019s land clearing is the lack of regulation. \u201cIt\u2019s a totally inept regulatory regime,\u201d says Morris, who is now chief executive of the Environmental Defenders Office NSW. He says land-clearing projects go through an environmental assessment framework, which the government has admitted is inadequate. \u201cThey\u2019ve committed to reform it but in the meantime all approvals go through this very poor assessment regime.\u201d In addition, major land-clearing proposals that occur on pastoral leases are assessed by a body called the Pastoral Lands Board, which adds further problems. \u201cIt is made up of four pastoralists and one rangelands scientist,\u201d Morris says. \u201cThere is a very clear trend of increased approvals of broad-scale land clearing in the Northern Territory. And there is a regulatory regime that is incapable of dealing with the individual and cumulative impacts of that clearing.\u201d \u201cHaving a board full of agricultural business people as the ultimate decision maker is mind-boggling,\u201d says Glenn Walker, a Wilderness Society climate campaign manager. Glenn Walker, adding: \u201cThe NT has the worst regulation for deforestation of any jurisdiction in Australia.\u201d And the spread of the land-clearing crisis doesn\u2019t look set to stop in the NT. Some of Australia\u2019s richest graziers are establishing cattle stations in Western Australia, and making claims for greater access to resources in the pristine Kimberley. Other states have their own clearing tragedies unfolding: some of Australia\u2019s most majestic and oldest trees are being cut down for timber by a state-owned company in Victoria, which has even less left to lose than NSW. And Tasmania has just signed up to allow more logging in its national parks until at least 2037, a move NSW and Victoria are considering following. Combined, eastern Australia is considered a global deforestation hotspot, the only one in the developed world. According to analysis by WWF\u2019s Martin Taylor, Australia is likely to lose 3m hectares of trees in the next 15 years. And all that is putting things Australians care most about under threat. \u201cIf you care about the Great Barrier Reef, then that\u2019s what you care about,\u201d he says. The effects of climate change on the Great Barrier Reef are multiplied by land clearing in Queensland, since it increases the amount of sediment that flows into rivers, and eventually on to the coral. That can starve them of light, and decrease their resilience to other impacts. WWF analysis estimated that 45 million animals are killed each year in Queensland, just from the bulldozing of their habitat. \u201cPeople have very strong feelings about cruelty and mistreatment of animals,\u201d Taylor says. \u201cSo what must they think of that then? That we\u2019re bulldozing 45 million animals to death every year?\u201d Both in Australia and around the world, habitat loss is by far the biggest threat to animals facing extinction. \u201cIf you care about koalas, and if you care about Australian wildlife \u2013 if you want your kids to see them \u2013 then that\u2019s what you care about,\u201d he says."
"9||Tasmanian election: how the Greens helped dash Labor's hopes of victoryTasmania\u2019s Hare-Clark voting system tends to produce close results. The proportional voting system requires a party to win close to half of the total vote to win a majority, and the complexity of the voting system means that we often have a number of seats left undecided at the end of the night. Yet the scale of the Liberal party\u2019s victory was big enough to produce a clear result before the end of the night. The party is currently sitting on 50.5% of the total vote, with at least 13 out of 25 seats, and a chance of winning two more. Labor recovered some ground from 2014, when they polled their lowest vote in recent history, gaining a swing of 5.4%, and possibly gaining as many as three seats. The result was most disappointing for the Greens, who dropped to 10% and may have lost two of their three seats (although both of these seats are still in play). This roughly equals the party\u2019s worst result in 1998, when they polled 10.2% and dropped to one seat. The Liberal campaign focused, among other issues, on the prospect of a hung parliament with Labor and the Greens forming government together. While the Greens have traditionally polled higher in Tasmania than in other states, there are also more voters who have a strong dislike of the minor party, and the prospect of minority government has been a turn-off for many swing voters. Both major parties pledged to only form government if they won a majority (creating a dilemma if a hung parliament emerged), but the Liberal party particularly focused on how anything other than a strong Liberal majority would end up with the Greens holding power. This issue played out in reverse back in the mid-2000s, when Labor was in a much stronger polling position, and they could claim that a vote for Labor would result in a stable majority. The most recent polling did a reasonably good job of predicting this result, with recent polling suggesting a shift towards the Liberal party and away from the Greens. The result was generally bad for minor parties. The combined vote for the major parties (83%) was the highest such vote since the 1986 election. The Jacqui Lambie Network managed 3.2% of the vote but this is down from almost 5% polled by the Palmer United party when Lambie was their senator in 2014. While the Liberal party solidified its majority position with a scare campaign about a potential Greens balance of power, Labor did a good job of strengthening its left flank. Labor\u2019s promise to remove poker machines from pubs neutralised one of the Greens\u2019 main non-environmental campaign issues. While Labor was targeted by a big-spending campaign against the poker machine policy that may have lost them votes to the Liberal party, Labor appears to have gained ground off the Greens, with Labor gaining a swing of 5.4% while the Greens lost 3.8%. This election emphasises a dilemma for Labor \u2013 there are many swing voters who will only vote for Labor if they believe they can govern alone. Yet the Greens will continue to play a major role in Tasmanian elections and the voting system ensures they will keep a toehold in Tasmania\u2019s lower house. Labor and the Greens formed government together from 2010 until 2014 but were both punished with significant drops in support at the 2014 election. Since then, Labor has insisted that they would only govern alone but it was not entirely plausible that they would turn down the opportunity to govern if it came as a package deal with the Greens. So how do you find a way to cooperate with a party who many swing voters don\u2019t like, or convince those voters that you will be able to govern alone, when that requires a big jump in your vote? Until Labor solves this problem, they will struggle to win elections in Tasmania."
"21||Guilty! How Google Maps judges Britain\u2019s courtsGetting barraged with bad reviews on a site such as TripAdvisor has become the bane of every restaurant owner\u2019s existence \u2013 but the negative reviews culture has spread well beyond places to eat out. Google\u2019s recent decision to allow anyone to review any business building in the world has led to UK courts and police stations facing a flurry of reviews. The verdict? Mixed, to say the least. Would-be visitors to the Thames magistrates court in east London \u2013 1.8 \u2605 and 19 reviews \u2013 are warned to \u201cbeware of these magistrates and their advisers who withhold this knowledge from the community to mislead us\u201d, are warned of \u201cunprofessional service\u201d, and told \u201cthey are all underqualified and useless, even the judges\u201d. Things get worse at Highbury magistrates court, with a 1.2 \u2605 average and 45 reviews that include: \u201cMy hardworking tax is being spent on giving people sex changes and aborting babies while law, access to justice and other essential components of our democracy are forever being further eroded\u201d; and \u201cKafkaesque in the extreme\u201d. Stratford\u2019s court averages just 1.4 \u2605, thanks to \u201clifeless and unhelpful\u201d staff and \u201cvery poor\u201d service. Westminster magistrates court has a few extra problems of its own, thanks to its recent ruling by chief magistrate Emma Arbuthnot against Julian Assange\u2019s appeal. \u201cChief \u2018Justice\u2019 Emma \u2018Aaargh But Not\u2019 decided to bodyline Julian Assange today,\u201d says a one-star review. \u201cShe should lower her head in shame. This Assange thing is a total fraud.\u201d Outside of London, courts are picking up fewer reviews, and there\u2019s even the odd good one. Courts in Bolton get mixed ratings, with one suffering a one-star \u201crubbish\u201d review, but another getting a five-star: \u201cSitting in on the trials was a good day out, would do again for the laughs.\u201d Happily, not every building picking up unsolicited Google Maps reviews is getting pilloried. The Guardian offices have been reviewed by 61 people and have a respectable 4.4 \u2605 average. A three-star review remarks \u201cgood journalism and general nosey people\u201d, a four-star says \u201cwork there\u201d, while a five-star one praises the \u201cmodern design, spacious offices for the newspaper staff\u201d."
"2||Jets a case study for romance of well-functioning A-LeagueWhen Andrew Nabbout received possession on the left touchline 56 minutes into Saturday\u2019s fixture between Newcastle Jets and Sydney FC expectation fizzed around McDonald Jones Stadium. The contest between the A-League\u2019s top two sides was already living up to the hype but it was about to go to another level. When Nabbout cut in from the left something magical happened. There was the split-second realisation in the mind of a young Australian that he possessed the confidence, the technique and the license to attempt a shot that would have made XG blush. First there was the strike itself; a laces-first daisy-cutter hit with intentional precision and power. Then there was the celebration, the euphoric goalscorer sprinting to the stands, scaling a wire fence and sharing a moment of pure abandon with the Jets faithful; as authentic an expression of reciprocal joy between player and supporter, club and community as you could wish to see at any football ground anywhere in the world. It was the high-water mark for A-League season 2017-18. The crowd was the fifth-highest non-finals attendance in Newcastle\u2019s history (including pre-Jets) and the hubbub had long since morphed into something more tempestuous following the early dismissal of Roy O\u2019Donovan. Shortly before halftime, the crowd erupted when Dimitri Petratos buried a penalty. Shortly after halftime, it subsided when Bobo\u2019s equaliser forced fans to contemplate their undermanned side resisting another 40 minutes against the competition\u2019s pre-eminent team. Not long after that, Nabbout changed everything. There haven\u2019t been many reasons to be cheerful as an A-League follower in recent months, but the Jets could well be top of the list. CEO Lawrie McKinna is the catalyst. With the backing of owner Martin Lee, McKinna has set about righting the wrongs of Nathan Tinkler\u2019s ill-fated ownership. He has realigned the club\u2019s administration with its football operations, brought youth and W-League programs in-house, and made a priority of embedding the Jets in the Hunter community. This was exemplified on Saturday when the cast of thousands at the game included over 70 former players as the club commemorated the tenth anniversary of the Jets\u2019 A-League championship victory, and 40 years since Newcastle KB United kick-started Novocastrian participation in national league football. One of McKinna\u2019s first bright ideas was to bring club legend Joel Griffiths back into the fold, ultimately as football operations manager. There was obvious symbolism to the appointment, but Griffiths also brought with him the knowledge of what a successful Jets operation looks and feels like. He is responsible for driving the cultural change that has underpinned the club\u2019s resurgence and his fingerprints are all over Newcastle\u2019s successful recruitment strategy. Perhaps most significantly of all, he was instrumental in the appointment of Ernie Merrick. Together, Merrick and Griffiths set about overhauling a squad that finished last in 2016-17, targeting players who could bring to life Merrick\u2019s passion for attacking football, while also re-establishing the Jets as a confident, forward-looking unit. \u201cThe biggest change? Getting the squad right,\u201d Merrick told News Corp. \u201cYou can coach defensive structure, but getting goalscorers and people who want to go forward is to me the real trick in coaching,\u201d said Merrick. \u201cThat, and changing the mindset. I asked the players, are you going to sit back and let teams come at you for the rest of your life? Or are you going to have a go? I told them they could make mistakes \u2013 I allow for 20 percent mistakes, so long as the 80 percent is right.\u201d It\u2019s a philosophy that has paid dividends many times over during a thrilling campaign in which the Jets have always strived to express themselves, including on Saturday, with ten men, against the runaway leaders of the A-League. It was a win that forces a reappraisal of the remaining weeks of the season, one that has for so long resembled a Sky Blue procession. With four points from three even contests against Sydney FC, there is no reason the Jets should feel overawed in any future head-to-head encounters. It should also not be overlooked that Sydney have yet to face Newcastle\u2019s best XI. This combination of Merrick delivering on-field and McKinna making strides off it is a potent one. Not only are the Jets bucking a trend with increased attendances, but the relationship between crowd and players has become a virtuous cycle. As displayed by Nabbout\u2019s celebration on Saturday, there\u2019s a vitality underpinning it all, a romance glimpsed all-too-rarely in recent months, and a reminder of what a well-functioning A-League can accomplish. With congress reform imminent, expansion and perhaps even a second tier on the horizon, the Jets offer a timely case study for how the time and effort invested in growing the game can bear fruit. We should all tip our hats in appreciation."
"6||AFLW: Pearce underlines champion status as TV visibility strikes sour noteWatching Daisy Pearce at Casey Fields on Friday night, retired St Kilda star Leigh Montagna offered this definition of a champion AFL/W player: \u201cThere are two things they do when they\u2019ve had a poor game. They respond... but they also look for ways to improve.\u201d Tagged out of last week\u2019s disappointing effort against Collingwood, Pearce underlined her champion status on the biggest stage of her team\u2019s short season. Not only did she amass 24 disposals and boot two goals, the skipper brought something athleticism and skill cannot buy: rabid competitiveness. During the week, Pearce made her regular appearance on Daisy, Lane and Race, and admitted to feeling \u201cflat\u201d after two weeks of poor losses, before adding: \u201cI\u2019m glad we\u2019re playing on Friday night, not Sunday, let\u2019s put it that way\u201d. The determination was evident in her voice, but so was the frustration. Pearce was left shattered after her team missed the grand final by percentage in season one, the \u201cwhat ifs\u201d haunting her throughout the off-season. No-one would have been more disappointed than her at her performance in Alice Springs, but to perform the way she did against the Lions spoke volumes about the character of the woman. Adding two goals in the first quarter, after managing only one in 2017, proved the icing on the cake of an already formidable game \u2013 and the difference against an unrelenting opponent. The Demons can count themselves fortunate to have Pearce as their leader, but she was assisted admirably by Elise O\u2019Dea whose tackle count of 12 dwarfed her rivals and spoke of her own superior will to win. Combined with Karen Paxman\u2019s gut running for yet another mammoth total of 25 disposals, the Demons\u2019 famed midfield put the pre-season premiership favourites back in the box seat for a spot in the grand final. All is far from lost for Brisbane, however, who, despite being well outplayed, could still count themselves unlucky not to have forced a draw. Too much, no doubt, was left to too few, and the performances of Sabrina Frederick-Traub and Kate Lutkins underscored how vital both pillars are to their fortunes. Frederick-Traub\u2019s three goals were a masterclass in core strength and positioning, while her forward pressure continues to belie her height and force turnovers and scoring opportunities for her team. Lutkins, meanwhile, is a lock at All-Australian half-back, another 26 disposals (21 kicks) impossible to ignore. That only 2,100 were present for the finals-like clash, however, was the biggest disappointment of the night, and highlighted some of the problems with the AFLW\u2019s fixturing. While playing games at Casey fields is in keeping with the community spirit of the competition, a 7pm start in Cranbourne East deterred non-local fans who would have had to leave work early and compete with peak hour traffic to attend. At the conclusion of round five the Lions remain in second place on percentage, with an easier run home than the Demons to come; they play Collingwood at home before taking on GWS in Blacktown, while Melbourne will face Carlton at Ikon Park before lining up against premiership fancies the Bulldogs at Whitten Oval. It may now seem a foregone conclusion that the race for the grand final is down to three: the Western Bulldogs and whoever finishes higher of Brisbane and Melbourne, but below them lurk two dark horses in Adelaide and GWS. Under new coach Alen McConnell, the Giants have been one of the success stories of AFLW season two, unlucky not to topple the Demons (or at least draw) in round one, while their only other loss came to Carlton after a storm delay in round two. Most impressive has been their astute recruiting, with Courtney Gum, the 35-year-old SANFL best-and-fairest, continuing to impress, and Cora Staunton, star Gaelic footballer, building an impressive highlights reel. At season\u2019s end, however, they, like Adelaide, may pay the ultimate price for last week\u2019s draw which leaves both a half-game out of the top three with two rounds remaining. Adelaide remain difficult to gauge given their early season form, but since the return of spiritual leader Erin Phillips they have found an aggression and belief that once again makes them a fearsome opponent. Phillips suffered a recurrence of her right quad injury in the comprehensive victory over Carlton, and it will be a nervous wait for her teammates as to how severe it is. That Phillips took herself off after having \u201cawareness\u201d of her quad, and claimed to be able to return if needed was promising, and may well prove a smart, precautionary move. Perhaps the best sign for the Crows, however, was a much-improved team performance, which continued as their wounded captain paced nervously on the boundary in the second half. Most eye-catching were Phillips\u2019 co-captain Chelsea Randall, who continued her underrated and excellent season with 15 disposals and seven tackles in a swing(wo)man role, and Ruth Wallace, W-League and junior Matildas recruit, who excited with three goals to solidify her status as one of the recruits of the season. The Western Bulldogs, meanwhile, now find themselves a game clear on top of the ladder, although their clash with Collingwood in Moe proved much closer and ferocious than predicted. After a fiery first half, one of the most entertaining moments came when Brittany Bonnici, tasked with tagging league best-and-fairest favourite Emma Kearney, tackled her over the boundary line and into the Fox Footy boundary-line commentary team. Kearney, unhappy with the over-zealous treatment, then responded by pushing Bonnici into the remaining camera crew before journalist Sarah Olle staged a dramatic walk-off, muttering \u201cwowsers\u201d. The resultant melee is sure to keep the match review panel busy with Pies captain Steph Chiocci and Bulldogs tagger Libby Birch also on report. As now seems to be a recurring theme, however, the match of the round was unavailable on free-to-air television (only two games were: Fremantle\u2019s clash with GWS on 7Mate, but only in Perth, and Adelaide v Carlton on 7mate nationally). More investment is needed to maximise the audiences for a league that continues to improve in leaps and bounds \u2013 but is seen by fewer than in its inaugural season. The much poorer visibility of AFLW 2018 (on TV and elsewhere) has been a sour note in a second season that should have been riding the wave of goodwill, remarkable increases in participation and viewing numbers that defined season one. With a broadcast deal shortly to be struck for next season, it remains to be seen what difference vested commercial interests will make to how seriously the competition is treated."
"9||Pressure builds for a national keeping place for Indigenous remainsThe commonwealth\u2019s National Heritage List has finally recognised a symbolic part of central Melbourne where the bones of many Indigenous elders lay buried. For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians the incorporation into the list of the Melbourne Domain Parkland and Memorial Precinct (including the Kings Domain Resting Place where the elders are buried) represents long overdue official acknowledgment of the injustice and disrespect shown to Indigenous dead. It is a moment of profound symbolic note, and perhaps a spark of hope emerging from a dark past, that Australia\u2019s appalling historic and extant treatment of the Indigenous dead may finally be addressed. It is a move that should, ideally, be harnessed as the impetus for a long overdue national \u201ckeeping place\u201d for displaced Aboriginal and Torres Strait islander ancestral remains. We should, perhaps, keep a lid on the optimism in this space where progress has been pitifully slow. The 109-hectare parkland and memorial precinct, south of the central business district between St Kilda Road and the Yarra River, is a peaceful parklands area of trees and water, and monumental structures including the Shrine of Remembrance, the observatory and Government House. Modern urban landscapes, not least in former or current capitals in outreaches of the old British empire, will often reflect and implicitly acknowledge the tensions of colonial history. The landscape of the Melbourne Domain Parkland and Memorial Precinct is an exemplar of this. For tens of thousands of years Aboriginal people camped and gathered in what is now the Royal Botanic Gardens on the Yarra banks, and around the lagoons and wetlands of the greater current city. As Melbourne City Council points out: The lakes of the Royal Botanic Gardens, while modified, are noted as some of the last surviving remnant wetlands within the Melbourne district which were present prior to European settlement ... they remain (with the Yarra River) as significant landscape markers of a pre-European landscape. A Victorian landscape has been imposed on the original Kulin Nation country of rich, almost perfect hunting grounds, with the river, lakes and lagoons. Government House with its totemic belvedere tower stands as a monument to colonial imposition and dispossession. The shrine opened in 1934 in response to Australia\u2019s participation in the first world war, the conflict that so defined postcolonial non-Indigenous Australian identity. From a population of five million some 416,000 Australian men enlisted. About 60,000 died and more than 155,000 were physically wounded. The losses of the first world war and the narrative around national \u201csacrifice\u201d and Anzac \u201cspirit\u201d, has always eclipsed in national consciousness and narrative the devastation of those other wars on the colonial frontier which also resulted, according to some estimates, in the deaths of at least 60,000 Indigenous people. So, the Kings Domain Resting Place with its modest monument speaks to more than just the 38 Indigenous people \u2013 from various parts of the continent \u2013 who have been buried there since 22 November 1985. That was when Indigenous activists, having successfully taken legal action to remove the bodies (many stolen from ancestral burial grounds by bone collector Murray Black) from the University of Melbourne, ceremonially proceeded to rebury them in Kings Domain. The reclaiming and repatriation of Indigenous remains coincided with a new generation of Indigenous land rights and social justice activism in the wake of the 1967 \u201ccitizenship referendum\u201d and the 1972 establishment of the Aboriginal Tent Embassy. Gary Foley, a leading activist who was central to the land and civil rights, and repatriation, struggles is referenced in the commonwealth\u2019s statement of the broader historical significance of Kings Domain Resting Place. It quotes him: This ... generated a major cultural, artistic and intellectual revival in Aboriginal Australia which led to a challenge of all institutions that Indigenous people regarded as involved in the cultural oppression of the Indigenous community. And, so, in the mid-1980s Museum Victoria started to become custodian for remains that were (often reluctantly) surrendered by the university, Freemason\u2019s lodges, the state coroner and members of the public. The 38 interred in the domain are representative of those thousands that remained in the museum \u2013 and the thousands still held elsewhere \u2013 until provenance of country could or can be determined. The federal government has long been shamefully remiss in establishing a permanent keeping place, having turned its back on the urgent need for a structure of national significance in which to respectfully inter the bodies of many thousands of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people whose remains were stolen or displaced. It is a disturbing fact that so many Indigenous ancestral remains are still kept in cardboard boxes at major Australian collecting institutions. Some were stolen from traditional burial sites, morgues and other state institutions to meet demand for a gruesome 19th and 20th century international markets for Indigenous remains, especially skulls. Others were displaced during the construction of roads and buildings, and through mining. The South Australian Museum, for example, has the remains of some 3,000 to 5,000 individuals stored in cardboard boxes in a room in its overflow storage warehouse. Similarly, the National Museum of Australia stores about 500 sets of Indigenous remains at its warehouse in outer-Canberra. It emerged last week that in Fitzroy Crossing, Western Australia, the remains of about 50 Aboriginal people, their bones uncovered by erosion, are being stored in boxes inside a shipping container. Those currently kept in museums, some having been repatriated from medical and collecting institutions overseas, often can\u2019t be provenanced to specific country. Indigenous belief holds that a spirit will be restless until the body to which it attaches is reconnected with country upon death. It\u2019s more than three years since the commonwealth\u2019s committee on Indigenous repatriation recommended the government invest in a keeping place in Canberra for the remains that can\u2019t, for various reasons, be reunited with country. The government has not yet formally responded. A simple but telling point must be made: no government in Australia would act with such flagrant disregard and disrespect to the dead if they were other than Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders. The way supposedly civilised societies treat the dead is surely a window onto how they view the living. The official acknowledgment of the historical import of the Indigenous repatriation tragedy as symbolised in Melbourne\u2019s landscape is an important moment. But the commonwealth is decades \u2013 some would say centuries \u2013 overdue when it comes to bringing dignity and more permanent closure to the sad and shameful issue of this continent\u2019s stolen Indigenous dead. Paul Daley is a Guardian Australia columnist"
"16||Lobbying by MPs forced government to back off on land-clearing enforcementAttempts by the federal government to stop potentially unlawful clearing in Queensland were reversed after political intervention, with a highly unusual apology letter sent to every landholder suspected of planning unlawful clearing at the direct request of the minister, documents obtained by the Guardian under FOI laws reveal. In December 2015 and January 2016, the federal department of environment took the exceptional step of asking 51 landholders with approval from the Queensland government to clear their land, to explain why the clearing wasn\u2019t unlawful under federal environmental law. But within two months, the department issued the unusual apology letter to every recipient of the initial letter, Guardian Australia can reveal. In the letter Shane Gaddes, then assistant secretary for the environment standards division, said the department \u201cdeeply\u201d regretted any distress caused, backflipped on demands for information, and indicated the letter wasn\u2019t part of any compliance action, but rather an attempt to help the landholders avoid legal action by activists. Internal correspondence obtained by Guardian Australia shows the apology letter was motivated by lobbying from National and Liberal MPs from Queensland electorates, as well as the pro-land clearing lobby group Property Rights Australia. More land is cleared of trees in Queensland than the rest of the country combined \u2013 with the latest figures showing 395,000 hectares were cleared in a single year \u2013 amounting to about a football stadium of clearing every three minutes. Clearing skyrocketed in Queensland after the former Liberal National party government under the premier Campbell Newman broke an election promise and scrapped clearing controls, introducing several ways for farmers to more easily clear trees. But regardless of state approvals, if a development is likely to impact a \u201cmatter of national environmental significance\u201d, then it must also be approved by the federal government under the Environmental Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act. Matters of national environmental significance include important populations of threatened species, the Great Barrier Reef and some migratory species. In the initial letter the federal department of environment said it had examined the proposal and concluded that it \u201cmay be necessary\u201d for the 51 landholders to seek formal approval under federal laws. The distribution of the letter sparked outrage among landholders. The Queensland Nationals senator Barry O\u2019Sullivan said at the time that \u201cactivist public servants\u201d were \u201clooking for ways to circumvent the intentions\u201d of Queensland and federal governments. The then minister for the environment, Greg Hunt, publicly defended the action, saying: \u201cThe department must implement the law.\u201d But correspondence obtained by Guardian Australia under FoI laws reveals the cause of Hunt\u2019s change of heart, leading to the apology letter. In a letter to the then-chairman of the pro-land clearing group Property Rights Australia, Hunt said: \u201cIn response to concerns raised by you, Senator O\u2019Sullivan, Senator Canavan and the Hon Warren Entsch MP, the department of environment has written to affected landholders clarifying their obligations and the intent of the first letter.\u201d The letter Hunt was referring to, also obtained by the Guardian, marked a sharp turnaround from the strong language and instructions of the first letter. In it the department said the first letter had been \u201ctriggered\u201d by information provided by the Queensland government, and that its intention was to help the landowners avoid legal action from conservation groups. \u201cHaving been informed of the issue by the Queensland government, we were obliged to address it in accordance with the act,\u201d it read. \u201cOur intention is to assist you understanding how you can comply with our national environmental law, both to avoid breaches and potential legal action by other parties,\u201d it said, after an earlier explanation that conservation groups can take legal action to stop clearing, even if they were authorised by the Queensland government. While the initial letter requested landholders supply information about how they were complying with federal law within a couple of weeks, the clarification letter advised they had no obligation to reply, adding that department officials were available to help. The clarification letter said that \u201cat the minister\u2019s direct request\u201d, the department would ensure all assistance was provided to ensure landholders\u2019 business \u2013 which in this case meant land clearing \u2013 could continue as soon as possible. Other documents obtained under FOI laws by the Wilderness Society reveal that the department initially investigated 59 properties that had clearing approved under Queensland law, of which 51 received the letters, after the department ruled they may need federal approval. Despite the conclusion of those investigations, a spokesman for the department of environment and energy said only three landholders had referred their applications for clearing to the federal government. According to the spokesman, the department now believes that seven of those initial properties may need federal approval. The spokesman said: \u201cThe department understands that the other four property owners are considering their options.\u201d Martin Taylor, conservation science manager at WWF Australia, said the letters should outrage the public. \u201cDo we hear police apologising to speeding motorists for preventing them from getting to their terribly important job on time, maybe even losing them their job?\u201d Taylor said. \u201cNo. We would scoff at such spinelessness. \u201cImagine the public uproar if a big coal company just started bulldozing endangered species habitat and digging up coal, simply ignoring the law, not bothering to seek approval first. \u201cWould we then see the department cringing away and mumbling sorry for bothering you, sir, but you really shouldn\u2019t do that you see? Why do different development sectors behave so differently when it comes to seeking approval and following due process, and why is the enforcement response so different? Is there a double standard at work in applying environmental law in Australia?\u201d Mark Butler, Labor\u2019s spokesman for climate and energy, said: \u201cThese letters are further evidence that the Liberals are incapable of standing up to National party pressure.\u201d \u201cBecause of the Liberals kowtowing to the National party, emissions from the land sector have at a minimum tripled in the Great Barrier Reef catchment areas alone. The additional clearing in Queensland alone has added 20m tonnes of carbon pollution to Australia\u2019s annual footprint \u2013 equivalent to doubling the number of cars and light trucks on New South Wales roads. \u201cUnfortunately it seems Josh Frydenberg has taken Greg Hunt\u2019s lead and will continue to ignore growing emissions from the land sector to placate the hard-right of the National party.\u201d Jessica Panegyres, a campaigner at the Wilderness Society, said the letter demonstrated the lack of proactive enforcement by the federal government. \u201cThey\u2019re not doing any proactive monitoring,\u201d she said. \u201cThe only reason they looked into this, despite it triggering the EPBC Act all over the place, is because they were put on notice by the Queensland government.\u201d Panegyres said the letter revealed the way land clearing and deforestation was effectively given an exemption from federal environmental law. \u201cIf you look at the problem of deforestation in Australia, it\u2019s predominately caused by private land clearing and logging,\u201d she said. \u201cLogging has a formal exemption from federal environment laws [through the regional forestry agreements], and this shows that clearing has a virtual exemption. The two sources of deforestation in Australia have an effective exemption.\u201d A spokesman for Hunt said: \u201cThe minister makes no apology for rigorously applying the law. When activities presenting a higher risk, as a result of Queensland land-clearing permits were identified, the strongest letters to comply with federal obligations were issued. \u201cA clarifying letter was sent to landholders to ensure roles and responsibilities were clearly understood. Landholders were given an opportunity to comply but, where they did not, they were held to full account under federal environmental law. \u201cSeveral landholders are currently going through an assessment under the EPBC Act.\u201d The environment and energy minister, Josh Frydenberg, declined to comment."
"6||Mo Farah wins big half-marathon and sets sights on Jones marathon recordMo Farah has set his sights on beating Steve Jones\u2019s 33-year-old British marathon record after a convincing victory in his first race for nearly six months. Farah, who retired from the track last September, won the Vitality big half-marathon in the capital in 61min 40sec, beating last year\u2019s London marathon winner Daniel Wanjiru by three seconds, with Callum Hawkins two seconds further back. \u201cThe good thing is here I\u2019ve learned I looked as good as Wanjiru,\u201d said Farah, who said he was bursting with confidence before next month\u2019s London marathon. \u201cSome of my sessions and the work I\u2019ve done in the past four weeks have been unbelievable. I think I still have it. It\u2019s just the mental side where you go \u2018I\u2019m getting on a bit \u2013 am I still hungry and still there?\u2019 We\u2019ll see. But I still want to be as competitive as I was on the track, on the road.\u201d Farah also revealed for the first time that he was aiming to wear a British vest again in next year\u2019s world championships in Doha. \u201cDefinitely, if I\u2019m in shape, why not?\u201d He also praised Hawkins, who will run the marathon for Scotland in the Commonwealth Games next month. \u201cCallum is a great athlete. He works hard. Over the years people have compared British people to the Kenyans and said we could never achieve. I don\u2019t see that. But anything is possible if you train hard as Callum.\u201d The elite women\u2019s race turned into a battle between Charlotte Purdue and Lily Partridge, before Purdue pulled clear to win in a new personal best time of 70:29."
"11||From shortbread to the NHS: Scotland fears loss of workers after BrexitThe snow is falling in Aviemore, but the window display of the Walkers shortbread bakery is springing with Easter treats, alongside the more traditional thistle rounds and petticoat tails. With its factory to the north in Elgin, and outlets like this one dotted across the region, Walkers is one of the biggest private employers in the Highlands. Jim Walker, whose grandfather started the company more than a century ago, is under no illusions about the human underpinnings of his international export business. \u201cForeign nationals are critical to our workforce in the Highlands. In the busy season, we employ around 1,700 workers, 500 of whom are mainly EU nationals, and that allows us to make up the numbers that we can\u2019t find locally when it is seasonal work.\u201d According to Walker, the effect of the Brexit vote on these employees has been subtle but significant: \u201cThey don\u2019t feel quite so welcome and I can see a gradual drift of them returning home, especially as the exchange rate makes work here less appealing.\u201d It is immediately apparent on a visit to Aviemore, the tourist heart of the Highlands, that EU nationals here are by no means a drifting population of seasonal workers: 91% of non-UK EU nationals employed by businesses in the region are permanent staff. Further up Grampian Road, at the four-star Ravenscraig guest house, owner Scott Burns-Smith explains that he \u201conly employs locally\u201d, before adding that a key member of staff is from the Czech Republic. \u201cHer daughter goes to school with my children. The primary school in Aviemore is extremely diverse and it\u2019s great for the kids,\u201d he says. \u201cI can\u2019t say I was happy about the [Brexit] decision, but I\u2019m feeling positive, and the last 10 years have seen only growth in the tourism sector.\u201d Before embarking on this independent venture, Burns-Smith worked in senior management for the Macdonald hotel group, whose mammoth resort dominates Aviemore town centre. It was here that Preslava Gancheva worked before settling a few miles down the Spey valley in Newtonmore. She echoes Burns-Smith\u2019s sentiments: \u201cThe local people I know have travelled the world and most have spent time in other countries. This makes life colourful and diverse.\u201d The abundant natural beauty, and an unexpected job offer, drew her to the Highlands in 2014 from Bulgaria and she is now, like so many other like her, embedded in the local community, exhibiting her photographs of the local landscape at a nearby gallery. Presenting the Scottish government\u2019s latest analysis of the impact of Brexit in January, the first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, underlined the serious consequences of a hard Brexit on vital EU migration. Population growth across the Highlands and Islands has been a success story of the past decade, with EU migrants in particular reversing long-term decline and mitigating the effects of an ageing society. But, as Sturgeon emphasised, Scotland is still facing a significant demographic challenge, with more deaths than births forecast every year for the next 25 years. According to current projections, migration will account for all of Scotland\u2019s population growth up to 2041. Indeed, a recent Scottish government discussion paper on migration called for Scotland-specific visas and further devolution to deal with the country\u2019s acute needs. There were 219,000 EU nationals living in Scotland up to June 2017, accounting for 4.1% of the population. There is no doubt that they are fundamental to the Highland economy and society; research for the Federation of Small Businesses found 41% of Highland employers have EU staff in their workforce, rising to 45% at tourism and leisure firms. The comparative figure for the whole of the UK is just 20%. As the local MSP Kate Forbes explains, the impact of the current uncertainty is emotional as much as economic: \u201cWhen you have a big influx of population as has happened here, they settle in, have kids, and there are a lot of mixed families in the Highlands. Those families are now feeling unsettled. We hear a lot about the growth in tourism and the food and drink sector, but these are small businesses worrying about where they will find the staff to open next year.\u201d Aside from tourism, the struggle to recruit healthcare workers into rural areas is well-documented. Prof Angus Watson, the director of research, development and innovation at NHS Highlands, is blunt. \u201cIf a hard Brexit goes ahead then we will really be up the swanny because we do rely so heavily on EU nationals to support our services at all strata, from healthcare assistants to consultants.\u201d For Katarzyna Michelowska, a Polish carer based in Ullapool, the uncertainty is hard to bear. \u201cFor most of my Polish friends it is a big unknown, especially for those with houses or businesses here. It\u2019s all on hold.\u201d She recalls a recent, ugly encounter in Inverness, with a passerby shouting abuse after hearing her accent. \u201cI\u2019m worried that for people who think in that way [Brexit] will almost give them the right to think that.\u201d She was particularly shockedbecause her experience of living in the Highlands since she moved from Glasgow four years ago has been overwhelmingly positive. \u201cEverybody is so friendly. They know that they need people like me, especially in care environment, and they know that the majority of eastern Europeans come here to work and want to do something meaningful with our lives.\u201d"
"12||Elsa from Frozen could be a lesbian? Cue the outrageWhat I love about Disney films is the way they always celebrate good old-fashioned family values. Princes go around kissing random unconscious women, for example, and there are various inter-species relationships between beauties and beasts or men and mermaids. It\u2019s all very wholesome. So, when news recently came out that Frozen 2 may include a lesbian relationship, right-thinking people were immediately outraged. I mean, can you imagine the message that would send to children?! Degenerate Frozen fans have long suspected that Elsa might harbor lesbian tendencies and have internet-campaigned to #GiveElsaAGirlfriend. In an interview with the Huffington Post, Frozen director Jennifer Lee responded to questions about whether Elsa might, indeed, get a female love interest with: \u201cwe\u2019ll see where we go.\u201d The HuffPo immediately translated this non-answer into a headline announcing there was a \u201cGlimmer of Hope\u201d Elsa was going gay, and the media then turned this glimmer into a firestorm. Now there are petitions asking Disney not to cave into the sinister lesbian agenda and various conservatives are clutching their pearls and screaming about the upcoming gaypocalypse. You\u2019d think, what with the state of the world today, a fictional character\u2019s sexuality might be at the bottom of people\u2019s \u201cthings I\u2019m going to get mad about\u201d list. You\u2019d think they might be able to let it go. But, no, that\u2019s not the way things work today. Outrage appears to be an infinitely renewable resource and everyone is mad about everything all the time. It can be hard to keep up with it all, so I have helpfully put together a guide to other indignities the internet couldn\u2019t let go of this week. Barbara Streisand is an evil dog-cloner Perhaps the most White Person thing I have ever done is spend $60 getting my adopted mutt a DNA test, because I wanted him to know more about his family background. The DNA test was completely wrong, by the way, but that\u2019s another story. This story is about Barbara Streisand who took \u201ccrazy dog lady\u201d to a whole other level. In a recent interview with Variety, Streisand casually mentioned that two of her three Coton de Tulear dogs had been cloned from cells taken from her late dog, Samantha. People immediately went berserk and this was one of the rare instances where outrage was bipartisan. The right tweeted things like: \u201cTrump hating Barbra Streisand spent $100,000 to clone 2 dogs while in her city women and children go hungry, homeless and no medical care.\u201d The left tweeted things like: \u201cnot rescuing a dog out of the millions in need of it and instead paying absurd amounts of money to clone one is PEAK rich white people.\u201d Peta obviously got involved in the debate and urged people to adopt, not clone. Call me cynical, but I really don\u2019t think Streisand is going to start a trend of people paying $100,000 to clone their dog. Perhaps we should just let the lady clone her pets in peace and worry about other things. It\u2019s actually really mean to call a white person \u2018colonizer\u2019 Speaking of white people \u2013 which we rarely do, I know \u2013 some of them are a little peeved at the moment because \u201ccolonizer\u201d is taking off as an insult. This is thanks to Black Panther where there\u2019s a hilarious scene in which Shuri says: \u201cDon\u2019t scare me like that colonizer!\u201d to a white guy whose name I have forgotten. Now it appears white people are getting called \u201ccolonizer\u201d in real life when they do things that smack of privilege. Some white people are very upset and uncomfortable about this. So please don\u2019t hurt any white people\u2019s feelings by saying the nasty C-word. Not to mention, it\u2019s just really unfair when People of Colour lump People of No Colour together into some sort of homogeneous group, OK? It\u2019s the perfect time of the month for a period drama Women have been saying for centuries that period pain is excruciating. But, I mean, women are prone to being a little hysterical. It\u2019s best to take everything they say with a pinch of salt and consult a man for a second opinion. So I\u2019m happy to announce John Guillebaud, professor of reproductive health at University College London, recently told Quartz that his patients have described menstruation pain as \u201calmost as bad as having a heart attack\u201d. Guillebaud didn\u2019t finish this with \u201cand we should believe them\u201d or anything. It was literally just a male figure of authority reporting his patients\u2019 comments \u2013 and yet it made international news. Media outlets from India to Australia to Arizona covered the story. Excuse me, but next time I get cramps I am calling the papers and telling them to hold the front page. Anyway, as you can imagine these headlines immediately started a gender war on the internet, with lots of outraged men saying there is absolutely no scientific evidence to prove menstruation \u2013 or even childbirth, for that matter \u2013 is any more painful than their stubbed toe. You know, I think that whatever your own feelings or experience on this matter, it\u2019s important that we women pipe down for once and just listen to men."
"3||Women march in London to call for gender equalityThousands of people joined a march in central London calling for gender equality and to celebrate the 100th anniversary of women getting the vote. The event, organised by the charity Care, was the sixth annual #March4Women, which is held each year on or near International Women\u2019s Day on 8 March. Organisers promised an \u201cuplifting and inspiring\u201d march, which aimed to shine a spotlight on the inequality women and girls face worldwide. Politicians from different parties, as well as groups representing all religions stood shoulder to shoulder as they marched on the same historic route taken by the suffragettes last century. Banners reading \u201cLet\u2019s finish what the suffragettes started\u201d and \u201cClose the pay gap\u201d were held aloft during the rally in Trafalgar Square, which followed the march. Speeches were made by the London mayor, Sadiq Khan, and activists Bianca Jagger, Helen Pankhurst, Shola Mos-Shogbamimu and Faeeza Vaid, with a video address by the singer Annie Lennox. Sandi Toksvig, the broadcaster and co-founder of the Women\u2019s Equality party, also appeared. Ahead of the march she said: \u201cWe\u2019ve been marching for 100 years. Now\u2019s the time to put our foot down.\u201d Leading the march was Pankhurst, the great-granddaughter of suffragette Emmeline Pankhurst, who said \u201cright across the board in every sphere there\u2019s work to be done\u201d to ensure gender equality. She said there was a \u201cgreat energy\u201d and that \u201cday after day after day there\u2019s a media story saying we are not going to tolerate this any more\u201d. Khan donned a \u201cdeeds not words\u201d sash and said he was a \u201cproud feminist\u201d. He said there were too few women in parliament and boardrooms across the country, adding that a 50% gender balance should be a floor to aim towards, not a ceiling. \u201cI think if you\u2019re in a position of power and influence and you think it\u2019s wrong that women get paid less than men, you think it\u2019s wrong there\u2019s discrimination against women still, you think it\u2019s wrong that simply by virtue of being born a boy you have more chances than a girl \u2013 you should be a feminist.\u201d He added: \u201cAnd I can\u2019t understand why anybody wouldn\u2019t want to be a proud feminist.\u201d The Labour MP Dawn Butler was met with a loud cheer when she said she was marching for women whose stories had been ignored or overlooked. She said: \u201cI\u2019m marching for the hidden history. I\u2019m marching for the women nobody knows about. I\u2019m marching for the women nobody speaks about. I\u2019m marching for the women who suffer in silence. I\u2019m marching to say we hear you.\u201d"
"12||It's falling in popularity but being married is brilliant \u2013 try itI stand before you as an emissary for a cool and obscure minority. You see, I am one of a dying breed. I am married. Statistically, nobody else in the country is married. Not even my wife. Marriage between opposite-sex couples has fallen to an all-time low. The Office for National Statistics has revealed that just 239,020 marriages took place in 2015, almost half the number that took place in 1940, and people are in uproar about it. \u201cBritain already languishes in shame at the bottom of the developed world league table for family stability,\u201d said a spokesperson from the Marriage Foundation, which is apparently a thing, on hearing the news. Worse still, the age of people getting married is also increasing. The average newlywed is now 36 years old, which means that marriage has become a solidly middle-aged activity. The only people who get married any more are people who enjoy laughing at Jeremy Vine\u2019s radio programme while driving their Volvo to Homebase. I haven\u2019t researched this, but I\u2019m certain that most wedding lists now just contain requests for Werthers Originals and vouchers for a Bupa hip replacement. It doesn\u2019t have to be this way. From personal experience, I can assure you that being married is fantastic. I have now been married for three-and-a-half years, and I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever felt so content. I feel like part of a team. We have weathered a lot in the past few years. Too much, even \u2013 all manner of births and fires and illnesses and deaths that have frazzled us beyond words \u2013 but at least we have weathered them together. At best, we\u2019ve formed a bond that will last an eternity. At worst, we have made it financially inconvenient to leave each other if we get too fed up. What\u2019s not to love? Of course, you\u2019ll notice that I said \u201cbeing married\u201d in that last paragraph and not \u201cgetting married\u201d. Getting married is the worst. Weddings are awful. Planning and executing a wedding is like doing a terrible version of The Krypton Factor, where every obstacle is designed to part you from as much money as possible. When you get engaged, you want to share your happy day with all the people you love. But by the time you actually get married, those people have transformed into walking piles of cash that you wish you had never spent. Also, at least in my experience, you\u2019ll often find that many of your partner\u2019s coworkers will gatecrash your reception and drive the venue\u2019s capacity far above its fire safety limit, and as a result you\u2019ll spend the rest of your life harbouring a simmering resentment for their employer. Frankly, weddings can do one. But marriage is great. You should definitely try it. I mean, you won\u2019t, because rents are so gigantic that you can barely even afford to live in a grotty flatshare while travelling to and from a job that\u2019s slowly destroying your will to live, and something as ostentatious as a wedding is quite rightly your lowest priority. But eventually. You should definitely try marriage eventually. It\u2019s the sensible, mature, adult thing to do. Sure, the responsibility and commitment of marriage pale into insignificance next to the responsibility and commitment of other grown-up activities such as owning a house and having kids, which means that marriage is essentially just a big, expensive, meaningless party to which you only invite people out of a crushing sense of obligation. But it\u2019s nice. Honestly, give it a go. Do it for the man from the Marriage Foundation. He\u2019s doing his nut over there. We can all learn a lot from Vladimir Putin Now, I realise that only bigots and taxi drivers start arguments by saying \u201cWe could learn a lot from Vladimir Putin\u201d. But, that being said, we could actually learn a lot from Vladimir Putin. Did you see his press conference on Thursday? The one where he announced a fleet of apparently invincible nuclear weapons with such verve and flair that he may as well have been unveiling a new iPhone? It was incredible. It was so fundamentally terrifying that I lost three fingernails trying to claw an underground bunker out of frozen earth but, man, that guy can sell. Nobody seems fully sure whether Putin\u2019s new line of undetectable, unpredictable, unstoppable low-altitude nuclear missiles are real or just preposterous pre-election bluster. But that doesn\u2019t really matter. During the final half of his speech, Putin basically just chatted over animated footage of incomprehensible destruction, including \u2013 rather ballsily \u2013 a scene where dozens of nuclear missiles rained down on Mar-A-Lago. It was roughly the equivalent of Theresa May breaking off from a big Brexit speech to treat everyone to a Blu-ray presentation of The Day After Tomorrow. So perhaps this is what will break the stale, say-nothing political landscape of Britain in 2018. Forget nuance. Forget conciliation. What we need now is blazing, boggle-eyed hyperbole. May or Corbyn, I don\u2019t care who, you need to grab a stage and promise a kaleidoscope of bloodthirsty vengeance, the likes of which humanity has never seen. You should release a party political broadcast made of nothing but screaming and explosions and boiling eyeballs. You should ride around topless on a horse, surveying the damage while wearing a crown made of your enemies\u2019 shattered skulls. Yes, it would be horrifying and immoral and we would still be mired in Brexit, but at least it would be interesting. Naming storms robs them of their dignity Can we all agree to stop naming individual bursts of weather. Remember the great storm of 1987? Now that was a storm with dignity. That was a storm that said \u201cchisel me into the annals of history\u201d. Three decades on, Michael Fish mistake aside, it still sounds like a moment of national importance. But the Beast From the East? That sounds like a wrestler. In fact, it\u2019s nearly the nickname of late WWE star Bam Bam Bigelow. Thirty years from now, you\u2019ll tell your children about the Beast From the East and they will laugh. And rightly so."
"14||'Go tackle Carillion or someone else' \u2013\u00a0Philip Green tells MPSir Philip Green, the Topshop owner, has written to the MP Frank Field calling for a \u201ctruce\u201d in their long-running public spat over the collapse of the BHS retail chain. Writing in a letter to the chair of the House of Commons work and pensions select committee at the end of last month, leaked to the Mail on Sunday, the retail tycoon told Field it was time to \u201cavoid another public spat, that you so enjoy\u201d. \u201cWhy don\u2019t we call a truce. You say it is not personal, it could not be more personal. Go and tackle Carillion or someone else. I think eighteen months later everyone is bored with this story,\u201d he wrote. Last month, Field, the chair of the Commons work and pensions committee, said he thought Green had \u201cgot away with murder\u201d over the failure of BHS with a \u00a3571m black hole in its pension scheme in April 2016. The comment was the latest in a long-running dispute between the two men. Green, who sold the chain for \u00a31 to serial bankrupt Dominic Chappell a year before the retailer shut down, agreed to pay \u00a3363m in cash to rescue the BHS pension scheme. He has threatened Field with legal action after the politician claimed to have seen leaked details of the official investigation into the BHS crisis. Field has also since pursued assurances from Green over the health of the pension scheme at his Arcadia Group, which includes fashion outlets Topshop and Miss Selfridge, and is also in deficit. Arcadia has highlighted plans agreed last year to double its pension contributions to \u00a350m a year. In his latest letter to Field, Green wrote that \u201cif the company is sold, there are pension obligations and there is a process that they will need to adhere to should that arise\u201d. He also said the pensions regulator was satisfied that processes are in place to protect funds were Arcadia sold. Green has been forced to deny Arcadia is up for sale in recent weeks, after leaks to the Sunday Times suggested he asked HSBC to help him find a buyer. His spokesman said on Sunday that neither Green or his wife, who is the principal shareholder of the company, had ever \u201cmet formally with HSBC regarding disposal of Topshop, Topman, or any part of the Arcadia Group, nor have they ever instructed the bank to find a buyer for all or part of the business\u201d. Field said on Sunday that Green could \u201cact above board\u201d and pay an insurance company to take on the entire pension liabilities of Arcadia. \u201cThat would free him to get on with the sale which the Sunday Times reports, but on which he still seems to be in a state of denial,\u201d he added."
"12||Germany\u2019s coalition deal safeguards the Merkel/Macron vision of EuropeAngela Merkel\u2019s new coalition government is testament to her skill as the great survivor, and to the unwisdom of underestimating her ability to outmanoeuvre opponents. Alliances of Germany\u2019s two main parties are dubbed \u201celephant coalitions\u201d. The one agreed this morning lumbers into life on very different terms from the last GroKo (grand coalition). \u201cTwo tired elephants, dancing for the last time,\u201d was the verdict of one speaker at the recent special conference of the Social Democratic party (SPD), calling for an end to deals with \u201cthe Merkelator\u201d and her Christian Democrats. In the end, she prevailed by a decent margin. There was a two-thirds majority among SPD members for remaining in the coalition, while a third backed a youth-led campaign to shake up left-of-centre politics. But the difficulty in delivering the coalition (five months since the election) marks a change that will resonate beyond Germany\u2019s borders. It shows the renewed power of party grassroots, and the increasing influence of members over grandees. For one thing, this deal placed Merkel\u2019s fate squarely in the hands of SPD members (including 20,000 new sign-ups) \u2013 a move that has given voice to the left of the party. A two-thirds vote of support for GroKo is fine for Merkel \u2013 but much less so for the SPD, digesting poor election results and with a probable new leader, Andrea Nahles. She will need to apply pressure on the new government for a clearer leftish agenda \u2013 to prevent the one-third of disappointed SPD members from turning into a Corbyn-inspired movement for sweeping change. Yet the greatest challenge to business-as-usual comes from another base: Merkel\u2019s Christian Democrat party, from whose restless ranks her successor will emerge. The promotion to party secretary of Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, a flinty Christian Democrat from the Saarland in western Germany, marks a departure from years of Merkel-worship and redistributes power in the party from a close-knit pro-Merkel faction in Berlin. \u201cAKK\u201d this week described dealings with Merkel as a \u201cgood, balanced relationship of trust and respect\u201d. It\u2019s a tone that cannily pays its dues to Merkel\u2019s leadership, while putting Kramp-Karrenbauer herself at eye-level with the chancellor, and speaking for members \u2013 underlining that they have been taken for granted. Kramp-Karrenbauer tartly observes that the party\u2019s list of broad policy objectives has barely changed since 2007 \u2013 \u201cthe year the first iPhone was released\u201d. Lines of dissent with the SPD lurk in her assertion that not enough has been done in Berlin to address the integration of the refugees the chancellor welcomed in large numbers in 2015. And she has pointed out, in language sharper than has been conventional on Team Merkel, that voters are \u201cfurious that people coming here for protection and aid have lied about their ages and countries of origin\u201d. If Merkel has previously swept aside unease on this issue, she must now deal more openly with anxieties about integration and the details of how to deal with irritations and fears that arise from it. She said last Monday that Germany had \u201cno-go areas\u201d, where police and public fear to tread. That frankness, if handled with good sense by the coalition, could keep at bay the far right, which has risen in part because conservative voters felt their concerns went unheard. It may, in the short term, give Alternative for Germany (AfD) more \u201ctold-you-so\u201d ammunition with which to make trouble in its new strengthened role in parliament. The Merkel-led coalition intends to head that off by capping annual refugee numbers at 220,000 (a concession for a chancellor who refused a cap in 2015). Germany\u2019s good fortune, however, is that a healthy budget surplus means there is money to deal with the difficulties. Its left wing will be happy to get more childcare, and curbs on short-term contracts. And for the right there will be some tax cuts and a more forthright acknowledgment of the difficulties of openness to refugees. The most troublesome conundrum after all this is that it will be hard to convince the sizeable chunk of voters who drifted to parties of the far left, far right and the Greens last year that one more dance of Germany\u2019s elephants represents a radical shift. The AfD in particular will gain more oxygen as the official opposition party. For Europe (and Britain approaching Brexit), there will be little change. Merkel signals emphatically in private that she sees the French president, Emmanuel Macron, as sharing her worldview, and will use her remaining time to consolidate that link. Theresa May\u2019s declared \u201ctrade-offs\u201d will have to be approved, like it or not, by a renewed Franco-German duopoly. A weakened SPD makes the coalition even more avidly pro-EU. So the new alliance will move faster on European fiscal integration, and seek to edge towards a combined eurozone budget, though at a cautious pace. None of this is easy listening for May. Her Brexit secretary, David Davis, has pre-emptively been seeking better relations with Team Macron \u2013 tacit acceptance by the cabinet\u2019s Brexiteers that appealing to Merkel to break the logjam with EU negotiators has not worked. But it is still Germany, as the EU\u2019s most successful economy, that will remain the biggest influence on what kind of Europe emerges from the continent\u2019s recent convulsions. On that, Merkel is where she aims to be in her final stint at the helm \u2013 unchallenged. Anne McElvoy is senior editor at the Economist"
"2||Arsenal crash at Brighton to pile more pressure on Ars\u00e8ne WengerThe chant from the Arsenal supporters cut through the south coast air and it laid bare the bitter frustration and the overall sense of helplessness. \u201cWe want Wenger out,\u201d they bellowed. It was the 34th minute, their team were 2-0 down to Chris Hughton\u2019s in-form Brighton &amp; Hove Albion and all they could do was conclude that Ars\u00e8ne Wenger\u2019s time was up. It is a judgment that has been reached by many but when the hardcore travelling fans broadcast it, the impression is somehow stronger, more absolute. It was certainly a dismal first half for Arsenal, even if they rallied at the end of it, and it is true that when they are bad, they are horribly so. Brighton were very good. They punished Arsenal\u2019s defensive slackness, in which Petr Cech was the most glaring culprit, and they might have had more during a period when Arsenal were gripped by indecision and nervousness. On the back of goals from Lewis Dunk and Glenn Murray, this was a win that reinforced the sense that Hughton and Brighton are staying up \u2013 and with a degree of comfort. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang got Arsenal back into it with a close-range finish in the 43rd minute and even then the reaction from the away support was sarcastic. \u201cWe\u2019ve scored a goal,\u201d they chorused. Wenger\u2019s team pressed hard on to the front foot thereafter but, although they enjoyed the territorial advantage and hogged 68% of possession, they failed to create too much of clear-cut note. They sorely lacked sharpness. Their away-day travails go on \u2013 they have now taken only 13 points from 15 matches this season. Wenger tried to draw an analogy afterwards between Arsenal and a naked man, who had been left exposed. He talked about the need to rebuild \u2013 or get dressed properly \u2013 although he rather got himself into a tangle. It was nothing compared to how his team slumped after a decent enough opening five minutes. Brighton\u2019s first forward thrust through Ezequiel Schelotto had set the alarm bells ringing and it led to a debatable corner, which Pascal Gross stood up towards the far post. It looked like one for Cech to claim except that he got himself boxed in and, rather abruptly, there was Shane Duffy going up for the ball with him and winning it. From Duffy\u2019s header, Dunk stretched to steer home. It was the prompt for Arsenal to fall apart. Wenger described his team as \u201cpassive, struggling for confidence and heavy-legged\u201d from the concession of the first goal to about the 40-minute mark and that was putting it kindly. It was the kind of period to give him nightmares. There were excruciatingly few options for the man in possession; so little movement ahead of the ball \u2013 tell-tale signs of rock bottom self-belief \u2013 and the errors duly followed. Alex Iwobi lost the ball when he had nothing on and, in a flash, Gross had supplied Anthony Knockaert and he was denied by a smart Cech block. Cech had previously saved from Gross while Brighton threatened from further corners. Dunk sent one free header over the bar. Brighton\u2019s second goal followed a loose Laurent Koscielny pass out from the back and they worked it to Gross on the right. Shkodran Mustafi allowed Murray too much space behind him and, when Gross crossed, the striker headed down and in. The ball squirmed underneath Cech too easily. Arsenal\u2019s frustration was summed up when Jack Wilshere jumped into a wild tackle on Knockaert in the 40th minute and was booked. It felt as though he wanted to send a message to his team-mates \u2013 they had to show some fight. Arsenal did respond and, almost implausibly, they might have been level at the interval. Aubameyang, who had seen an early shot blocked by Duffy, touched home from Granit Xhaka\u2019s pass, after good work by Iwobi. And on 44 minutes Koscielny rose to flick a deflected header on to the post from Henrikh Mkhitaryan\u2019s cross. Wenger had omitted H\u00e9ctor Beller\u00edn, Aaron Ramsey and Danny Welbeck from his starting line-up with an eye on Thursday\u2019s Europa League tie at Milan but he must have reasoned there was enough on the field to get a result. They were a little better in the second half. Mesut \u00d6zil drove at the area and extended Mathew Ryan and Aubameyang rounded Ryan only to see the goalkeeper get back. It was nowhere near enough. Sead Kolasinac escaped a second booking after he cleaned out Schelotto, although Hughton said there was \u201cnothing malicious\u201d to the barge. Schelotto was forced off, having seen stars, and he looked to have recovered afterwards. But when Aubameyang could not squeeze his shot past Ryan in stoppage time, there would be no escape for Arsenal."
"11||Watson should consider returning Mosley donation, McDonnell suggestsJohn McDonnell has suggested that his shadow cabinet colleague, Tom Watson, should consider whether to return half a million pounds in donations from Max Mosley, the disgraced racing tycoon and privacy campaigner. The shadow chancellor told Sky News that Labour\u2019s deputy leader ought to think hard about his \u201crelationship with Max Mosley and the finances as well, because if he is reiterating his views from the past he clearly hasn\u2019t changed\u201d. Watson, who is also shadow culture, media and sports secretary, has been under intense pressure over the issue since the Daily Mail uncovered a 1960s leaflet linking immigrants with disease that described the former FIA motorsport boss as its publisher. The pamphlet, backing a candidate of the far-right Union Movement, which was founded by Max\u2019s father, Sir Oswald Mosley, claimed that \u201ccoloured immigration threatens your children\u2019s health\u201d, listing \u201ctuberculosis, VD and other terrible diseases, such as leprosy\u201d. The Labour party made clear that it would not accept any more donations from Mosley since the revelation, but backed its deputy leader\u2019s decision not to return the \u00a3540,000 already paid. Watson defended the move by claiming that Mosley no longer held the same views that had been expressed 57 years ago, and praised his work campaigning for better regulation of the press, on which the pair have worked closely together. However, McDonnell took a stronger position when asked about a recent Guardian interview in which Mosley said it was \u201cperfectly legitimate to offer immigrants financial inducements to go home\u201d. Watson later said: \u201cI have spoken to Max and it could not be any clearer that he categorically does not believe immigrants should be offered financial inducements to leave the UK.\u201d Asked by Sky News\u2019s Niall Paterson if repeating such a view ought to mean Watson returns the money, McDonnell said: \u201cThe money was given to Tom. Tom took that decision. He took that decision on the basis, I believe, that Max Mosley\u2019s views had changed from years ago \u2026 \u201cTom will really need to consider seriously exactly that relationship with Max Mosley and the finances as well because if he is reiterating his views from the past, he clearly hasn\u2019t changed.\u201d The comments come as the former Labour MP, David Winnick, who first became an MP in 1966 before representing Walsall North from 1970 until 2016, argued that Watson ought to return the money. He said the Labour party had not known about the leaflet when it accepted donations, but added: \u201cI think it is important to recognise that the money was inherited. It is the same money that Oswald Mosley used for his fascist work. I do look on the Mosley money as being contaminated.\u201d In comments to the Guardian, Winnick said that Max Mosley had also failed to distance himself from the actions of his father, unlike his half-brother, Nicholas, who had used a 1971 interview with the Guardian to state: \u201cI see clearly that while the right hand dealt with grandiose ideas and glory, the left hand led the rat out of the sewer.\u201d Winnick said: \u201c[Max Mosley] has not denounced what his father did either before the war, or after the war. When there was no mileage any longer having a go at the Jews, he then turned on the blacks.\u201d A spokesman for Watson said: \u201cThe Labour party has said it won\u2019t accept any further donations from Max Mosley. Max no longer holds the views he held over half a century ago.\u201d"
"2||Brighton & Hove Albion 2-1 Arsenal: Premier League \u2013\u00a0as it happenedOtherwise, thanks all for your company and comments \u2013 sorry I couldn\u2019t us them all \u2013 and enjoy the rest of your weekend. While in the act, join Simon Burnton for Man City- Chelsea... and Will Unwin for Barcelona-Atletico. Bye! But that\u2019s enough of them; let\u2019s give credit to Brighton for a focused, intense, organised and enterprising performance. They earned everything they got, and will stay up with plenty to spare if they maintain that level for the rest of the season. Arsenal probably dulled some of the heat on themselves by deigning to play some football in the second half, but everything about them prior to that was atrocious, and so was what followed - absolutely if not relatively. I don\u2019t know how much longer this can go on for. For the first time in 16 years, Arsenal have lost four games in a row; for the first time in 36 years, they\u2019ve lost to Brighton! And what a performance that was from the Seagulls, who are now tenth in the table! Arsenal stay sixth, and presumably will remain there even if they accumulate no further points this season. 90+7 min Brighton are doing really well at keeping Arsenal on the back foot, and there we go! 90+5 min Dunk and Duffy have been superb today, combining for Brighton\u2019s first goal and defending very well in the second half. They know each other\u2019s game, and what their team needs from them, as well as being properly decent players in their own right Duffy especially. 90+4 min ... and he picks out Stephens, the first available man. For a second it looks like Brighton have a break - then everyone realises it\u2019s Murray on the ball. 90+5 min Arsenal win a free-kick on the left touchline, 30 yards out, Xhaka with it... 90+3 min Kolasinac does well down the left, digging out a cross, and when it\u2019s bundled down to Aubameyang, the ball is behind him. Still, he does well to get around it and his right buttock to strike a half-volley, but sends it straight at Ryan. 90+2 min Arsenal shuttle from side to side, but can\u2019t find a gap - I\u2019m not sure Ryan has made a serious save this half. 90 min There\u2019ll be seven minutes of injury-time. Incidentally, it shouldn\u2019t require a proper injury for a sensible amount, reflecting how much was lost, to be added on. 90 min Ozil aims for Welbeck, and when the ball comes out of the box, Wilshere flails and flays it wide. 90 min Arsenal win a corner down the left... 88 min So Arsenal have been much improved this half, and as such, the pressure on Wenger might be less than it looked like being - probably enough to see him through to Milan on Thursday. But that is a key game - can he get them to perform like, well, a team, for 90 minutes? 87 min Final change for Brighton: Kayal replaces Gross. 85 min \u201c\u2018Wilshere surges through midfield - even now, I\u2019m not sure England have another midfielder able to do that\u2019\u201d tweets Lee Roberts, quoting me back to myself. \u201cHave you not been watching the Ox for Liverpool lately?\u201d Hmmm. I guess he has done that a few times, but I\u2019d be wanting to see plenty more of it before backing him to do it in the World Cup. He\u2019s a talent, though. 84 min Lovely stuff from Brighton, moving it quickly and with purpose before Izquierdo absolutely fries Bellerin. The ball makes its way into the middle and Murray taps home, but knew he was offside. 83 min Arsenal are chasing a goal, so withdraw Mkhitaryan; I really don\u2019t think I get why they didn\u2019t just keep the Sanchez money for the summer. Anyway, Nketiah, who\u2019s looked knackful in Cup football, comes on for his league debutand Bellerin replaces Chambers. 81 min \u201cDidn\u2019t we learn from the Mane/Ederson incident that looking at the ball is no mitigation these days?\u201d asks Matt Loten. \u201cOf course, Kolasinac\u2019s challenge wasn\u2019t nearly as bad, but he still technically endangered the safety of his opponent, and his intentions didn\u2019t change the fact that his opponent ended up flat on the floor having oxygen administered.\u201d I think we need to be careful about judging the severity of a tackle according to its consequence. A price we pay for the physical nature of the game is people sometimes getting hurt and it being no one\u2019s fault; I\u2019d say that was such an occasion. 80 min Wilshere flights a ball to the back post where chambers is up. He can\u2019t nod across, but the clearance finds Mkhitaryan, who wafts a shot that he\u2019s lucky to see deflected behind. The corner comes to nothing. 78 min Wilshere surges through midfield - even now, I\u2019m not sure England have another midfielder able to do that - so Murray summarily upends him. 77 min Brighton look a bit more stable following the Schelotto stoppage, and further fortify by withdrawing Knockaert, who\u2019s played well and is vex! March comes on in his stead, as he generally rants and stomps to amusing effect. 75 min That\u2019s Iwobi\u2019s last involvement; he\u2019s replaced by Daniel Welbeck. 74 min Arsenal pick it up again, finding good pockets of space in front of the Brighton back four. But one tame pass from Iwobi, one quick pass across halfway from Knockaert, and suddenly Murray is in! Except he isn\u2019t, because he runs like his boots are full of porridge, so checks and the opportunity goes. 72 min Izquierdo worries Mustafi again. This time, he\u2019s seen away well, but Brighton should be getting the ball out left at every opportunity. 71 min Fine, early pas from Kncokaert, over halfway for Izquierdo, who steps on the gas and rinses Mustafi with a change of pace, making his way across the face of goal before screwing a low shot just wide of the near post. 69 min At last we see the challenge again; Kolasinac was looking at the ball when he charged through Schelotto\u2019s phizog, so probably deserves the benefit of the doubt, which is no card. Bruno is now on. 67 min Schelotto must be in a way because he\u2019s still down; Kolasinac remains in limbo, unless he\u2019s away with it entirely. 65 min All the things no one wants to see. Kolasinac flattens Schelotto and Knockaert, the fearsome Knockaert, is over for the row as everyone jostles. The ref was already tasking time to decide on yellow or red, and carries on taking time as Schelotto gets treatment. 63 min And here they come, Ozil finding himself down the left and crossing low, Bong doing brilliantly to intercede ahead of Aubemeyang. the ref then goes back and books Schelotto, who scythed through Xhaka earlier in the move. 63 min This is much better from Arsenal now. 60 min Stephens slides in, robs Wilshere cleanly, takes a bit of him in the follow-through - and bizarrely, the ref books him. Free-kick Arsenal, 30 yards out, right of centre, and Xhaka scuffs into the wall but his mates help him out and force a corner ... Mustafi heads Mkhitaryan\u2019s kick straight at Ryan. 60 min Arsenal are coming, Aubameyang reaching Ozil\u2019s ball before Ryan, close to the by-line. But he can\u2019t turn it back into the danger area, and the chance goes. 57 min I\u2019ve not seen enough of Iwobi to have an opinion on where he\u2019s at, but last season his joy and confidence made him look a real prospect - is it just a confidence issue, or an ability one too? Anyway, he shoots wide and Arsenal maintain pressure, Aubameyang given space to tee-up Ozil, left of centre, 20 yards out, and he whams an outswinger towards the near post, Ryan doing well to shove behind. Arsenal then take the corner short and Kolasinac bursts into the area, Stephens taking a wild swing at him and doing exceedingly well to connect solely with fresh air. There are claims for penalty, but it didn\u2019t look one to me. 55 min Brighton build in leisurely manner down the right and Schelotto crosses, forcing Cech to touch over the top. The corner comes to nowt, which Arsenal can count as some kind of progress. 54 min Xhaka shows the kind of moxie that earned him the house keys, booting Bong and earning a yellow card. 53 min \u201cIf I were Brendan Rodgers I wouldn\u2019t touch the rumoured Arsenal job with a 10 foot barge pole,\u201d emails Hubert O\u2019Hearn. \u201cIt will take two full seasons to sort out the mess and Arsene\u2019s successor, barring miracles, won\u2019t get two full seasons.\u201d I don\u2019t know; it\u2019s still a belter of a job. There are some decent players and, I\u2019d imagine, some money to be chucked around. Part of me thinks Rodgers would be an ok appointment, but it\u2019ll never happen unless other more fashionable names say no first. 51 min A few minutes of quiet before Arsenal leave space in behind, Brighton almost exploit it, then Mustafi almost exploits it for them with a pathetically wet backpass that Cech screws into touch. Brighton use the throw to build again, and Arsenal just can\u2019t find any momentum. 48 min Mkhitaryan and Iwobi move the ball nicely outside the Brighton box, can\u2019t find the space to make anything happen and are soon forced onto the back foot, Izquierdo drawing a challenge from Mustafi, pasting past him, and swinging in a dangerous cross which Arsenal get away. Mustafi is the sixth dearest defender of all-time. 47 min Nothing whatsoever to do with football, but I enjoyed this nonetheless. If you\u2019ve not watched Gomorrah, do so immediately, you\u2019re welcome. 46 min Ozil carries the ball 30 yards, then rolls a visionary\u2019s pass straight to Schelotto. 46 min We go again. \u201cShould I hope for a Gunners win or should I hope they lose and see Wenger get axed?\u201d asks Anjaney Lokapur. Yes, I feel you \u2013 it felt a bit like that watching David Moyes\u2019 Manchester United (typing that succession of words will never not feel weird). I guess this will be over in May, which isn\u2019t long, but on the other hand, this every week sounds like a lot. \u201cYou ask: \u201cCan Wenger last the season?\u201d emails David Mooney. \u201cFor him to be sacked, it would require at least one board member to be paying attention to what is happening on the field. Evidence from the entire Kronke era suggests that this is not the case.\u201d Oh, it\u2019s not that - just that if they win the Uefa Cup they make more money. Half-time snide: \u201cWill Arsenal bring in a substitute for Wenger in the second half?\u201d asks Clayton Littlejohn. If his players have anything about them, they\u2019ll sort this themselves. There\u2019s no way they are, or can excuse, defending this badly and indolently. That was absolutely breathless stuff, which might perhaps assuage those Arsenal fans who\u2019ve been complaining, quite properly, of boredom. Whatever else that was, it most definitely was not that. Gosh, that was unusual. Everyone seems to have forgotten already but Arsenal started well, then went behind and never looked back, disbursing 30 minutes of so of unbridled worstness as Brighton, brilliantly, ravaged them. But they then contrived a pretty decent equaliser and will probably fancy themselves for at least point. 45+1 min Arsenal nearly equalise! Mkhitaryan paints in a corner which is half-cleared; it ends up back with him. This time he crosses towards Kolasinac, who goes up with Schelotto; between them, they divert the ball hard onto the near post. 45 min There\u2019ll be two added minutes. 45 min So can Arsenal go on from here? They just look so clueless at the back, but perhaps their midfield can keep the ball well enough to protect the defenders; Fingers McGraw, Koscielny, in particular, looks like he wants Wallace and Gromit to put him out of his misery. As I was saying, Iwobi turns up inside the Brighton box and lays the ball back to Xhaka who does well not to slam it over the bar as is his wont, instead smacking a low pass to Aubameyang, in the middle of the box, who flicks home the livener. That\u2019s very well done. 42 min Arsenal have been absolutely miserable, abject, awful, terrible, useless, appalling, horrendous, embarrassing, shambolic, pitiful, risible and more. 40 min Ah, now that\u2019s what Arsenal need; English Superjack Wilshere, he of the Union flag couch, absolutely flies into Knockaert, knee-high, and is booked. Good, honest, old-fashioned thuggery - he gets it, what a man. Brighton look to slip the free-kick in behind, but about 64 of them go too early and are offside. 39 min Arsenal have a moment, a nice ball from Chambers finding Mkhitaryan who can make nothing of it. 37 min \u201cI\u2019m reminded of Danny Baker,\u201d says Steven Hughes, \u201conce telling his radio audience about the time that his father came along to a Millwall game. Everyone was being searched on the way in but the police officer took one look at Baker\u2019s Dad and said: \u2018You\u2019re okay, Pops. You can go in.\u2019 Baker\u2019s Dad extended himself to his full height and replied: \u2018Pops? You saucy bastard. I demand to be searched!\u2019 I once went to Chelsea away with my dad, and, for reasons known best to themselves, the grass dogs pulled me. That wasn\u2019t at all embarrassing, my father experiencing what, in Yiddish, is known as \u201cnaches\u201d. 35 min It\u2019s gone a little quiet, which I guess is some kind of relief for Arsenal. 33 min We are roughly 75 minutes away from a bantorious tweet from the hilarious Borussia Dortmund account. \u201cWe want Wenger out!\u201d chant, presumably, the away fans. There\u2019s this concept in the bible of a \u201cchet lenefesh\u201d, a sin against the soul - Joseph rejecting Potiphar\u2019s well fit wife, for example - and when sung in Hebrew it is ascribed a desperate, oscillating siren of a note called the shalshelet. That must be what it feel like, as an Arsenal fan, to get involved in that kind of gear. 32 min Brighton are playing superbly, and a long pass finds Knockaert on the right. First time, he touches inside, and Murray lays back to Gross who can\u2019t evade the various blocks thrust in his coupon. 30 min I wish I didn\u2019t have to ask this, but here we go: can Wenger last the season? I\u2019m sure the eventual successor isn\u2019t available now, but the way it looks, anyone would be an improvement. It isn\u2019t possible to envisage less being extracted from these players, and a change would lift everyone. 29 min \u201cArsene Wenger, we want you stay\u201d; I think we can be sure that this is, most definitely, the home fans. What a business. And what an effort from Brighton. 28 min Kolasinac earns a \u201cwe are trying, honest we are\u201d booking for tussling with Gross on the ground. In comes the free-kick, and after it\u2019s half-cleared, Brighton return the ball and Murray heads into Cech\u2019s hands. I didn\u2019t much like to say this earlier, but Petr Cech is done. That said, his mates are a bad word; they\u2019re every bad word, and all the ones we\u2019ve not invented yet too. Koscielny gives the ball away for kicks and Brighton move it right, Propper to Knockaert to Gross, who crosses beautifully. Nonetheless, Mustafi has about ten minutes to get a handle on where Murray isyet doesn\u2019t, and the consequent downward header is dived over by the ailing keeper. 25 min \u201cMilkshakes and eyebrows? Eyebrows AND Milkshakes? Are there eyebrows *in* the milkshakes, or are they stuck on the outside of the glass, to make as if you\u2019re drinking from the top of a human skull? Are they milk eyebrows, to go with the milk moustache you get from drinking the shakes? I need answers, Harris!\u201d So wonders Mac Millings. You drink the eyebrows and have the drinks threaded above your eyes; let me tell you, it is very. 23 min Brighton win another corner and again Gross\u2019 delivery is very good, Dunk heading over the top. Arsenal are barely competing in the air here; if you\u2019re picture is flickering, it\u2019s the static from Graeme Souness rubbing hands on troosers in unfathomable fury. 22 min 9 min Granit Xhaka is the latest on the list of ironically-named footballers, alongside Mark Noble, Felipe Melo and Claudio Bravo. 20 min Iwobi tries to turn on the ball an unfurl a long, raking, 30-yard pass to feet, setting up yet another devastating attack from this wondrous Arsenal team. But instead, Knockaert blocks it at source and cuts into the box, feeding Gross whose backheel return meets his stride, only for the shot to be smothered. Poor from Arsenal, excellent from Brighton, who are properly enjoying this. 17 min Chambers makes good ground down the right and nips inside Bong, who slides in impetuously. But Chambers stays on his feet, gets naewhere, and Izquierdo streaks away, cutting inside and seeing his shot deflected wide. From the corner, Gross again picks out his man, Dunk heading over the top. 16 min \u201c\u2019\u2018Sacked in the morning,\u2019 sing the home fans. You sure that\u2019s the home fans?\u201d snickers Gary Naylor. 15 min \u201cThis cannot compete with Shake n Brow,\u201d says John Willoug with undue humility, \u201cbut here in Hadley we have \u2018Dave\u2019s Pet &amp; Soda\u2019, which sells pets, pet supplies and has a massive selection of soft drinks - all those obscure brands you can\u2019t find elsewhere or thought had been discontinued.\u201d That is very odd indeed. I\u2019d like to have a pint with Dave. 13 min I\u2019ll tell you what, Dunk and Duffy are two of the heroes of this season. Anyway, Izquierdo saunters down the left and moves the ball inside to Murray who looks to tee Stephens up. It doesn\u2019t quite come off, but reflects the confidence with which Brighton are now playing. 11 min Brighton, if they\u2019ve got any sense, will press Arsenal all over the pitch now. Or maybe they\u2019ll just keep following their manager\u2019s gameplan because it\u2019s working and I\u2019m just some bloke with an internet connection. Definitely one of the two. 10 min \u201cSacked in the morning,\u201d sing the home fans. Yes, that\u2019s really what it\u2019s come to. And Brighton are into this, Izquierdo cutting inside and cracking a low drive that wins his team a corner. Again, it causes aggravation but eventually the ball goes behind and Arsenal clear. Oh, Petr! Gross\u2019 corner is a fine one, starting way out towards the penalty spot and sharply swinging in. So Cech comes and Duffy, with a run, tanks after the same ball, thunking across, and Dunk punishes a volley into the roof. Now we\u2019ll see what\u2019s what! 7 min Decent break from Brighton, Schelotto tanking down the right and crossing from the right; Izqiuerdo looks for it at the near post, but Mustafi slices behind. 5 min All the play is in the Brighton half at the moment, which I don\u2019t suppose is much of a surprise; the question will be what happens if things don\u2019t work out as they hope. Anyway, Mkhitaryan turns up on the right - perhaps he\u2019s playing in the middle, I don\u2019t know - and whips in a cross at which Dunk waves a leg He\u2019s relieved to see it shank behind for a corner, which again comes to nothing. 3 min Arsenal knock it about confidently enough. It seems that Iwobi is on the right, with Mkhitaryan on the left; the two combine when the latter wanders infield, setting Ozil for a shot which he drives over the bar from 20 yards. 1 min Aubameyang wins possession on halfway and pegs forward. Duffy though, does really well to stay with him, Vincent Kompnay-style, sliding in to concede a corner. I\u2019, sure you can guess the rest, but in case not, it comes to nothing. 1 min Away we go! Any other unusual shops come to mind? I\u2019ll tell you what, Calum Chambers has got a fine pair of eyebrows, which is something. Tangentially, not that far from the Emirates can be found a shop called Shake n Brow. Yes, that\u2019s right: it sells eyebrows and milkshakes, a winning combo I\u2019m sure you\u2019ll agree. The tunnel at the Amex is very wide. I don\u2019t like it. Entirely unconducive to jostling, eyeballing and such. David Moyes, 54 years old. Chris Hughton, 59 years old. Chris Hughton says the only change of approach today is that his team need to be mindful of Arsenal\u2019s quality. He also says his team are in good form and managing to score, which hasn\u2019t always been the case, but will probably need the rub of the green to get a result. Alex Scott is interviewing Steve Sidwell who, let us never forget, has his wedding vows tattooed on his back. Convenient. I seem to recall Calum Chambers getting a chasing at Swansea when playing right-back, perhaps off Jefferson Airplane Montero; a proper, Jesper Blomqvist-David May style chasing. Perhaps \u201cHector\u201d is being punished for his Oxford Union rig. Go on then, when have you been most ashamed of your conduct towards your parents? So Brighton are unchanged following their 4-1 ragging of rockin\u2019 Swansea last time out. They\u2019ll be hoping that Pascale Gross can roam about behind Arsenal\u2019s midfield, and expecting Anthony Knockaert and Jose Izquierdo to stretch their defence. Arsenal, meanwhile, at least appear to have some discernible shape. On the other hand, I know Hector Bellerin is out of nick, but I reckon Izquierdo might just fancy a trot at Calum Chambers. Henrikh Mkhitaryan, meanwhile, might do something from the right \u2013 his best position, I\u2019d say \u2013 and perhaps Mesut Ozil will have a good day. Brighton &amp; Hove Albion (an asphyxiating 4-4-1-1): Ryan; Schelotto, Duffy, Dunk, Bong; Knockaert, Stephens, Propper, Izquierdo; Gross; Murray. Subs: Krul, Goldson, Bruno, Kayal, March, Ulloa, Locadia. Arsenal (frankly-who-knows?): Cech; Chambers, Mustafi, Koscielny, Kolasinac; Xhaka, Wilshere; Mkhitaryan, Ozil, Iwobi; Aubameyang. Subs: Ospina, Bellerin, Holding, Maitland-Niles, Elneny, Welbeck, Nketiah. The successor to Roger Milford: Kevin Friend (Leicester) The next time I saw my dad similarly compromised was in 2012 when, leaving Carrow Road he tripped his own self in the process of making a quick exit, after initiating verbals with a Norwich fan fuming about a last-minute winner. But that\u2019s another story. Are you sitting comfortably? Then I\u2019ll begin. Sometime in the early 90s, around the start of my adolescence, my old fella and I were walking down the street. Repeatedly, he flicked a foot in front of mine in an effort to trip me, and repeatedly I, at the peak of my school corridor game, stepped over and around his baitest of offerings. Then, when he was least expecting it, I extended my little toe more as a matter of principle than anything else, and was horrified to see him, a split-second later, prone on the pavement. How to feel and who to blame for this unsettling state of affairs? On the one hand, my dad both started things and remained undeterred when they didn\u2019t go as he intended, refusing to acknowledge that things had changed; if he couldn\u2019t or wouldn\u2019t tell himself, he needed telt. On the other hand, couldn\u2019t I just have advised myself and let it ride? I owed him my life, my education and all the joy I ever had; surely he\u2019d earned the right to do as he pleased? This gripping, thought-provoking yarn is, by amazing coincidence, a watered-down allegory of what I imagine it\u2019s like watching Arsenal these days. Ars\u00e8ne Wenger taught the club what good football felt like and brought a new dimension to the English game in the process \u2013 in particular, its greatest ever club rivalry. But beyond that, he conducted himself in a wry, intense and intelligent manner that made him easily lovable and which demanded respect. But here he now is \u2013 and I hesitate as I type this for it stings \u2013 absolutely done \u2013 demanding that those to whom he is everything put him on his arse because he refuses to accept that his time has passed. Grim. Brighton, meanwhile, are doing just fine thankyouforasking. It\u2019s true that this season, twelfth in the table means something slightly different to usual, but as Ryan Giggs would say, they\u2019d\u2019ve took it. Four points above the relegation zone is a decent place to be, and unbeaten in four, they\u2019ll fancy themselves to grind out another home something or other this afternoon. Kick-off: 1.30pm GMT"
"6||Olympic champion Ruth Jebet embroiled in drug-testing scandalRuth Jebet, the reigning Olympic 3,000m steeplechase champion and world record holder, has become the highest-profile Kenya-born athlete to become embroiled in a drug-testing scandal. Although the news has not yet been confirmed, a number of prominent sources have suggested Jebet has tested positive for a performance-enhancing drug, believed to be the blood booster EPO. The Athletics Integrity Unit, which processes all doping tests in track and field, said it was unable to confirm the result of any tests under the World Anti-Doping code. Meanwhile, Jebet\u2019s agent, Marc Corstjens, said he had not heard any news of a positive tests. \u201cHonestly I am surprised and shocked. I am absolutely not aware of anything. I tried to reach Ruth but her phone is not answering. I have absolutely no official information.\u201d The 21-year-old is seen as one of athletic\u2019s brightest stars having won a stunning gold medal at the 2016 Rio Olympics before shattering the world record while still a teenager. She is also a controversial figure in Kenya, having switched allegiances to run for Bahrain after being approached as a 16-year-old and promised a full scholarship to take an animal health degree in the country. Yet with Jebet spending most of her time training in Kenya, this may raise more questions about how many of the country\u2019s athletes are clean \u2013 and whether enough is being done by the authorities to find out. Between 2011 and 2016, more than 40 athletes from Kenya failed doping tests, including Rita Jeptoo, the three\u2011times Boston marathon champion, who was given a four-year ban after testing positive for EPO in 2014. Last year Jeptoo\u2019s former training partner, the Olympic and London marathon winner Jemima Sumgong, was also banned for four years after her claim she was taking EPO for an ectopic pregnancy was rejected. Yet if Jebet\u2019s failed test is confirmed it will be a bigger shock still. When she took gold in the women\u2019s 3,000m steeplechase at Rio in 8:59:75 \u2013 at that point the second-fastest time in history \u2013 she was hailed as \u201cGolden Ruth\u201d, although she was greeted with boos in her homeland because she beat Kenya\u2019s Hyvin Jepkemoi into second. It emerged the Bahrain government had paid Jebet a $500,000 bonus for her Olympic success. By contrast David Rudisha, who won the 800m in Rio in a Kenyan vest, received $10,000 from his government. Two years ago Kenya was deemed \u201cnon-compliant\u201d by Wada but it was reinstated before the Rio Olympics. However, many athletes have suggested not enough is done to test athletes training in the country. The Canadian runner Reid Coolsaet said in 2016: \u201cKenyan-style anti-doping test. Notify us the night before. One-hour drive to test site at 5am. Many Olympic medallists in house. It was an IAAF accredited test. Procedures are far from what I\u2019m used to in Canada.\u201d In 2013 another high-profile Kenyan, Matthew Kisorio, told the German broadcaster ARD he took illegal drugs \u201cbecause everyone told me, I wasn\u2019t the only one \u2013 and none of the others got caught for doping\u201d. He added: \u201cI know a lot of medical substances are used, which are injected straight to the blood for the body to have more oxygen. And when you run, you run so smooth. You have more stamina.\u201d"
"21||Will 2018 be the year of the neo-luddite?One of the great paradoxes of digital life \u2013 understood and exploited by the tech giants \u2013 is that we never do what we say. Poll after poll in the past few years has found that people are worried about online privacy and do not trust big tech firms with their data. But they carry on clicking and sharing and posting, preferring speed and convenience above all else. Last year was Silicon Valley\u2019s annus horribilis: a year of bots, Russian meddling, sexism, monopolistic practice and tax-minimising. But I think 2018 might be worse still: the year of the neo-luddite, when anti-tech words turn into deeds. The caricature of machine-wrecking mobs doesn\u2019t capture our new approach to tech. A better phrase is what the writer Blake Snow has called \u201creformed luddism\u201d: a society that views tech with a sceptical eye, noting the benefits while recognising that it causes problems, too. And more importantly, thinks that something can be done about it. One expression of reformed luddism is already causing a headache for the tech titans. Facebook and Google are essentially huge advertising firms. Ad-blocking software is their kryptonite. Yet millions of people downloaded these plug-ins to stop ads chasing them across the web last year, and their use has been growing (on desktops at least) close to 20% each year, indiscriminately hitting smaller publishers, too. More significantly, the whole of society seems to have woken up to the fact there is a psychological cost to constant checking, swiping and staring. A growing number of my friends now have \u201cno phone\u201d times, don\u2019t instantly sign into the cafe wifi, or have weekends away without their computers. This behaviour is no longer confined to intellectuals and academics, part of some clever critique of modernity. Every single parent I know frets about \u201cscreen time\u201d, and most are engaged in a struggle with a toddler over how much iPad is allowed. The alternative is \u201cslow living\u201d or \u201cslow tech\u201d. \u201cWant to become a slow-tech family?\u201d writes Janell Burley Hoffmann, one of its proponents. \u201cWait! Just wait \u2013 in line, at the doctor\u2019s, for the bus, at the school pickup \u2013 just sit and wait.\u201d Turning what used to be ordinary behaviour into a \u201cmovement\u201d is a very modern way to go about it. But it\u2019s probably necessary. I would add to this the ever-growing craze for yoga, meditation, reiki and all those other things that promise inner peace and meaning \u2013 except for the fact all the techies do it, too. Maybe that\u2019s why they do it. Either way, there is a palpable demand for anything that involves less tech, a fetish for back-to-basics. Innocent Drinks have held two \u201cUnplugged Festivals\u201d, offering the chance of \u201cswitching off for the weekend ... No wifi, no 3G, no traditional electricity\u201d. Others take off-grid living much further. There has been an uptick in \u201cback to the land\u201d movements: communes and self-sustaining communities that prefer the low-tech life. According to the Intentional Community Directory, which measures the spread of alternative lifestyles, 300 eco-villages were founded in the first 10 months of 2016, the most since the 1970s. I spent some time in 2016 living in an off-grid community where no one seemed to suffer mobile phone separation anxiety. No one was frantically checking if their last tweet went viral and we all felt better for it. Even insiders are starting to wonder what monsters they\u2019ve unleashed. Former Google \u201cdesign ethicist\u201d Tristan Harris recently founded the nonprofit organisation Time Well Spent in order to push back against what he calls a \u201cdigital attention crisis\u201d of our hijacked minds. Most of the tech conferences I\u2019m invited to these days include this sort of introspection: is it all going too far? Are we really the good guys? That tech firms are responding is proof they see this is a serious threat: many more are building in extra parental controls, and Facebook admitted last year that too much time on their site was bad for your health, and promised to do something. Apple investors recently wrote to the company, suggesting the company do more to \u201censure that young consumers are using your products in an optimal manner\u201d \u2013 a bleak word combination to describe phone-addled children, but still. It\u2019s worth reflecting what a radical change all this is. That economic growth isn\u2019t everything, that tech means harm as well as good \u2013 this is not the escape velocity, you-can\u2019t-stop-progress thinking that has colonised our minds in the past decade. Serious writers now say things that would have been unthinkable until last year: even the FT calls for more regulation and the Economist asks if social media is bad for democracy. This reformed luddism does not however mean the end of good, old-fashioned machine-smashing. The original luddites did not dislike machines per se, rather what they were doing to their livelihoods and way of life. It\u2019s hard not to see the anti-Uber protests in a similar light. Over the past couple of years, there have been something approaching anti-Uber riots in Paris; in Hyderabad, India, drivers took to the streets to vent their rage against unmet promises of lucrative salaries; angry taxi drivers blocked roads last year across Croatia, Hungary and Poland. In Colombia, there were clashes with police, while two Uber vehicles were torched in Johannesburg and 30 metered taxi drivers arrested. Imagine what might happen when driverless cars turn up. The chancellor has recently bet on them, promising investment and encouraging real road testing; he wants autonomous vehicles on our streets by 2021. The industry will create lots of new and very well-paid jobs, especially in robotics, machine learning and engineering. For people with the right qualifications, that\u2019s great. And for the existing lorry and taxi drivers? There will still be some jobs, since even Google tech won\u2019t be able to handle Swindon\u2019s magic roundabout for a while. But we will need far fewer of them. A handful might retrain, and claw their way up to the winner\u2019s table. I am told repeatedly in the tech startup bubble that unemployed truckers in their 50s should retrain as web developers and machine-learning specialists, which is a convenient self-delusion. Far more likely is that, as the tech-savvy do better than ever, many truckers or taxi drivers without the necessary skills will drift off to more precarious, piecemeal, low-paid work. Does anyone seriously think that drivers will passively let this happen, consoled that their great-grandchildren may be richer and less likely to die in a car crash? And what about when Donald Trump\u2019s promised jobs don\u2019t rematerialise, because of automation rather than offshoring and immigration? Given the endless articles outlining how \u201crobots are coming for your jobs\u201d, it would be extremely odd if people didn\u2019t blame the robots, and take it out on them, too. Once people start believing that machines are a force of oppression rather than liberation, there will be no stopping it. Between 1978 and 1995, the Unabomber, Ted Kaczynski, sent 16 bombs to targets including universities and airlines, killing three people and injuring 23. Kaczynski, a Harvard maths prodigy who began to live off-grid in his 20s, was motivated by a belief that technological change was destroying human civilisation, ushering in a period of dehumanised tyranny and control. Once you get past Kaczynski\u2019s casual racism and calls for violent revolution, his writings on digital technology now seem uncomfortably prescient. He predicted super-intelligent machines dictating society, the psychological ill-effects of tech-reliance and the prospect of obscene inequality as an elite of techno-savvies run the world. The American philosopher John Zerzan is considered the intellectual heavyweight for the anarcho-primitivist movement, whose adherents believe that technology enslaves us. They aren\u2019t violent, but boy do they do hate tech. During the Unabomber\u2019s trial, Zerzan became a confidant to Kaczynski, offering support for his ideas while condemning his actions. Zerzan is finding himself invited to speak at many more events, and the magazine he edits has seen a boost in sales. \u201cSomething\u2019s going on,\u201d he tells me \u2013 by phone, ironically. \u201cThe negative of technology is now taken as a given.\u201d I ask if he could forsee the emergence of another Unabomber. \u201cI think it\u2019s inevitable,\u201d he says. \u201cAs things get worse, you\u2019re not going to stop it any other way,\u201d although he adds that he hopes it doesn\u2019t involve violence against people. There are signs that full-blown neo-luddism is already here. In November last year, La Casemate, a tech \u201cfab lab\u201d based in Grenoble, France, was vandalised and burned. The attackers called it \u201ca notoriously harmful institution by its diffusion of digital culture\u201d. The previous year, a similar place in Nantes was targeted. Aside from an isolated incident in Mexico in 2011, this is, as far as I can tell, the first case since the Unabomber of an act of violence targeting technology explicitly as technology, rather than just a proxy for some other problem. The French attackers\u2019 communique was published by the environmentalist/anarchist journal Earth First! and explained how the internet\u2019s promise of liberation for anticapitalists has evaporated amid more surveillance, more control, more capitalism. \u201cTonight, we burned the Casemate,\u201d it concludes. \u201cTomorrow, it will be something else, and our lives will be too short, in prison or in free air, because everything we hate can burn.\u201d If the recent speculation about jobs and AI is even close to being correct, then fairly soon \u201cluddite\u201d will join far-right and Islamist on the list of government-defined extremisms. Perhaps anti-tech movements will even qualify for the anti-radicalisation Prevent programme. No one wants machines smashed or letter bombs. The wreckers failed 200 years ago and will fail again now. But a little luddism in our lives won\u2019t hurt. The realisation that technological change isn\u2019t always beneficial nor inevitable is long overdue, and that doesn\u2019t mean jettisoning all the joys associated with modern technology. You\u2019re not a fogey for thinking there are times where being disconnected is good for you. You\u2019re just not a machine. Radicals: Outsiders Changing the World by Jamie Bartlett is published by William Heinemann. To order a copy for \u00a317 (RRP \u00a320) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99 Radicals: Outsiders Changing the World by Jamie Bartlett is published by William Heinemann. To order a copy for \u00a317 (RRP \u00a320) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846."
"0||Farm heists: a hive of criminal activityWhat getaway car would suit the theft of 1m bees? Oxfordshire police have been pondering this very question since last week, when they were called to investigate the biggest ever bee theft in the UK. Forty hives, each home to around 25,000 bees, were taken from a family-run business, Beekeeper Honey. Bee thefts have been growing over the past decade, which an industry spokesperson has blamed on rivalry between beekeepers. The owners of Beekeeper Honey in Brackley say the hives could produce 12,000lb (5,500kg) of honey over the year, and moving them would have required expert knowledge. Here are six other farm heists. Bovine bother Cow rustling didn\u2019t die out with the Dandy. In 2016, a New Zealand farmer suffered the largest cow theft the country has ever seen, when 500 cows disappeared from his milking herd of 1,300 on South Island. New Zealand is home to around 10 million cows \u2013 twice its human population \u2013 but the dairy industry said the NZ$1m theft wasn\u2019t taken seriously. The cows were most likely stolen a few at a time over a number of months. Fruit salad No one likes to be caught red-handed, but that\u2019s just the trap one Jamaican farmer set for her adversaries after a spate of banana thefts in 2013. She spray-painted her bananas red, an approach the Ministry of Agriculture confirmed was safe, and the thieves stayed away. At the time, bananas were selling for a premium after Hurricane Sandy had wiped out much of the crop the previous October. Pine in the neck After poor harvests, pine nut prices rocketed in 2015, leading to a chain of thefts from factories, and one gang managed to drive off with \u00a3300,000 of the tiny kernels \u2013 seven tonnes. Wholesale prices had climbed to \u00a340/kg, and supermarkets were even tagging jars of pesto with anti-theft devices. Corn bawl Don\u2019t dismiss farm heists as local crimes for local people. In 2013, the FBI accused two Chinese companies of industrial espionage for stealing seeds from US agricultural businesses. In 2016, one of the \u201ccorn crawlers\u201d, Mo Hailong, was sentenced to three years in jail for stealing expensively produced hybrid seeds from Monsanto and DuPont. Send in the troops Spain sent its feared Guardia Civil to Valencia during a spike in orange thefts blamed on the financial crisis. In just one month \u2013 April 2013 \u2013 50 arrests were made, and the mounted patrol scared off more. Security gourds needed Some thefts need brains, others brawn. When Halloween fanatics decided to steal a 300lb pumpkin from an Illinois farm in 2012, they would have needed a tractor, a pallet and a truck, said the giant pumpkin\u2019s owner, who was stumped by its disappearance."
"6||Sean Abbott suffers reminder of Phillip Hughes's death after hitting batsmanAustralian cricketer Sean Abbott, whose tragic bouncer struck and killed batsman Phillip Hughes in 2014, has had another one of his deliveries strike a batsman on the helmet. On this occasion Abbott\u2019s rising ball hit 20-year-old Will Pucovski during a Sheffield Shield match on Sunday. The Victorian batsman was forced to retire after being struck on the helmet. Pucovski fell to the floor after the blow and required treatment for a number of minutes before gingerly getting back to his feet and being helped off the pitch by medical staff. Abbott was clearly impacted by the incident at Melbourne\u2019s Junction Oval and took a number of minutes before he regained sufficient composure to bowl once again as Pucovski showed the effects of his injury. A 2016 coroner\u2019s inquest found that Hughes made a \u201cminuscule misjudgement\u201d before being hit in the neck by the delivery and Abbott was in no way to blame for the former Test batsman\u2019s death. It is not the first time Pucovski has suffered a head injury while at the crease. On his debut he suffered concussion after being hit in the head by a ball while fielding. \u201cWill Pucovski remained at the ground following the incident and is being treated by Cricket Victoria\u2019s medical staff,\u201d Cricket Victoria doctor Trefor James said. \u201cWill has been ruled out of the remainder of the match and we will continue to monitor him over the coming days, and we can then determine a return to play plan for him.\u201d Cricket Australia introduced concussion substitutions in domestic games following recommendations made by an independent investigation into the death of Hughes."
"12||Employers admit there\u2019s a gender pay gap. What about race?One version of the national story we tell ourselves is that postwar migrants, particularly people of colour from the \u201cnew commonwealth\u201d, helped support our public services, notably the National Health Service and London transport. There is something poetic in the fact that the first NHS hospital was opened within months of the arrival of Empire Windrush; yet something almost tragic that, seven decades later, their grandchildren are experiencing racial inequality at work. A new study has found that ethnic minority workers in the capital\u2019s public sector face a pay gap of up to 37%.The finding is not exactly surprising, but it is particularly depressing in this year, the 70th anniversary of Windrush and half a century since the 1968 Race Relations Act finally outlawed the infamous \u201cno blacks, no Irish, no dogs\u201d signs. Across the UK, and particularly in London, racial diversity is nothing new. Yet a report last year from the Equality and Human Rights Commission found that \u201cbroadly speaking, in the period 1993-2014, there has been very little narrowing of ethnic pay gaps and for some groups they have actually increased, particularly among men\u201d. There is clearly discrimination in employment, with people with equivalent qualification but with African and Asian surnames having to send in twice as many CVs just to get an interview. Black and minority-ethnic people are also more likely to face disciplinary action and other decisions that most affect progression and pay. There\u2019s no shortage of ideas on how to respond to these inequalities \u2013 from diverse recruitment panels to name-blind CVs to positive action training schemes. Many private sector companies have set targets for change. No private companies have yet published ethnic pay gap figures, but it\u2019s now clear that public bodies have to do more. In particular, the Metropolitan police stood out with a 17% pay gap \u2013 the result of a severe lack of minority staff at senior levels. Race equality needs to be prioritised. In 21st Britain, if an organisation can\u2019t enable its own minority staff to progress, then it\u2019s being badly managed. Tackling poverty and class disadvantage would also do a lot to tackle racial inequalities, with nearly half of ethnic-minority children living in poverty. London has some of the highest deprivation in the country, with the borough of Tower Hamlets having the highest child poverty and highest pensioner poverty in all of England. Government needs to respond better to these inequalities. Until employers directly tackle not only unconscious bias but institutional and interpersonal discrimination, people of colour in London and across the UK won\u2019t have fair job opportunities. Tackling ethnic pay gaps is a national challenge. Amid much fanfare, all large organisations are being forced, by the end of this month, to reveal how much they are paying women compared to men. The gender gap will be embarrassing for many of them. These London figures show the urgent need for a national race equivalent, to name and shame the businesses and public sector organisations that are underpaying Britain\u2019s ethnic minorities. Then we can really start redressing the imbalance. \u2022 Omar Khan is director of Runnymede Trust, a race equality think tank"
"0||Police respond to reports of explosion in north-east LondonHomes have been evacuated following reports of an explosion in north-east London, the Metropolitan police have said. Emergency services responded to the explosion, in Romford, which was not being treated as terror-related. A Twitter account listed on the police.uk website as being updated by the local force said the incident was a domestic gas explosion linked to a faulty fridge, adding that there had been no injuries. However, a spokeswoman for the London fire brigade said the cause of the explosion was still being investigated by a team on the scene. Police, the fire brigade and the ambulance service all attended the scene of the incident, which was reported shortly before 1.30pm on Sunday. Roads in the area were closed and a cordon put in place around the affected building, which is on a parade of shops on Farnham Road, in the Harold Hill area. Havering police tweeted that pedestrians and motorists should avoid the area. A local resident, who asked to remain anonymous, told Essex Live that there was a \u201cloud explosion which shook the flat\u201d and glass from the building was thrown across the road. Firefighters were on the scene within 10 minutes, the neighbour said. \u201cA police van turned up soon after and then one fire engine. I know there are more police vans around to block off the roads. \u201cThey cordoned off from behind the shop it was only the road directly behind it. I live opposite and we were told to stay in but people that lived above the shops were told to evacuate.\u201d Co-op area manager Michael Roast said the Romford branch of the chain had been forced to close by the explosion and added that staff on the premises had been evacuated safely."
"15||Tony Hall: BBC must fight US tech firms to protect British valuesThe UK\u2019s public service broadcasters face a David versus Goliath fight against \u201cwest coast giants\u201d to protect British values and prevent the spread of social unease and division, the BBC director general will warn this week. In one of his most significant interventions, Tony Hall will take aim at the US \u201cFang\u201d companies \u2013 Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google \u2013 in a speech to BBC staff in London. Britain faces greater challenges than at any time since the 1970s from tech companies dominating global media, he will say, describing the moment as a time of \u201cbreathtaking, seismic change\u201d. \u201cTechnology and social media can add to this sense of social unease and division. Too often, it can distort our view of one another and allow us to live in imagined communities where we only really engage with those who share our views. \u201cFake news compounds that challenge, eating away at trust in the media \u2013 including in the BBC \u2013 and blurring the lines between reality and so-called \u2018alternative facts\u2019,\u201d Lord Hall will say. Citing big market interventions such as Disney and Comcast, the media world is consolidating at a speed not seen before, and the BBC needs to change radically to meet the challenge, he will say. Old business models are being ripped up and \u201cthe global media landscape is likely to be dominated by four, perhaps five, businesses of the west coast of America\u201d. These west coast giants will \u201cskilfully mine every ounce of personal data to drive growth and profit\u201d. They will \u201cpluck established talent wherever they can find it, but their business isn\u2019t to inspire the next generation of British talent\u201d, he will argue. Public service broadcasting in the UK and the BBC can continue to thrive, he will say, but only if it accelerates reform, and getting it right is vital for the future of British creativity. He will argue that the value of British public service broadcasting matters more than ever in the era of fake news. To back up that idea Hall will lay out a plan for the BBC to set a \u201cgold standard\u201d for broadcast news, invest in and promote new talent, back creative ideas, reinvent and enhance services such as iPlayer, and prioritise reaching young audiences. Post-Brexit, he will signal he wants to work with other public service broadcasters on how the BBC responds. Despite the Fang companies, available in more than half of British homes, on average the great majority of TV output viewed in the UK is still British content, even among younger audiences, he will say. And he will argue that there is real potential for co-production and commercial growth to keep pace with the global players and safeguard Britain\u2019s creative track record. The BBC may not be \u201cthe biggest kid on the block any more\u201d, but Hall will say: \u201cNobody is fighting harder for Britain and for our audiences. In our fight against fake news ... in our commitment to diverse communities the length and breadth of the UK ... in the values that we project to the rest of the world ... and in the creativity that means so much to every one of us.\u201d"
"22||Who put the spark in Frankenstein\u2019s monster?It is one of the most famous novels of all time, often cited as the first work of science fiction, with a genesis almost as well known as its terrifying central character. Mary Shelley\u2019s Frankenstein: or the Modern Prometheus was published 200 years ago in 1818, when she was just 21. It was the result of a challenge laid down in 1816 by Lord Byron, when Shelley and her lover \u2013 later her husband \u2013 Byron\u2019s fellow poet Percy Bysshe Shelley were holidaying at Lake Geneva in Switzerland. The party had hoped for good weather, but the eruption of a volcano in the East Indies in 1815, the greatest event of its kind in recorded history, had ushered in three years of bone-chilling cold that killed crops and cast a shadow across Europe. As they huddled for warmth around a fire one night, Byron suggested each of them should write a horror story. For days Shelley suffered writer\u2019s block until she came up with the idea of a scientist who reanimated a creature stitched together from body parts, only to be horrified by his success. Some believe Shelley was inspired by a trip to Germany, where she is thought to have learned the legend of Frankenstein Castle and one of its 17th-century inhabitants, an alchemist called Johann Conrad Dippel, who was rumoured to have exhumed bodies for experimentation. But it now appears Shelley\u2019s true source of inspiration for Victor Frankenstein\u2019s monster was considerably closer to home. In a foreword to a new edition of the classic, to be published by Oxford University Press next month, Nick Groom, of Exeter University, sometimes referred to as the \u201cProf of Goth\u201d, suggests it was her husband\u2019s fascination with galvanism \u2013 chemically generated electricity \u2013 that sparked her imagination. Percy Shelley, one of Britain\u2019s most cherished Romantic poets and author of the celebrated sonnet Ozymandias, was fascinated by science, in particular the creation of electricity. \u201cHe was very excited by galvanic apparatus,\u201d Groom explained. \u201cHis sister, Helen, would recall that he would, as she put it, \u2018practise electricity upon us\u2019. He used to make all the family sit around the dining room table holding hands, and he\u2019d turn up with some brown paper, a bottle and a wire and they\u2019d all get electrocuted.\u201d On one occasion Percy even threatened to electrocute the son of his scout at Oxford University. Mary and Percy enjoyed a symbiotic working relationship. She corrected his proofs and he helped edit Frankenstein. But Groom is clear that the book was, contrary to what some have argued, Mary\u2019s creation. \u201cThe work is by her and should be attributed to her.\u201d Sent down in 1811 from Oxford for co-authoring a pamphlet on atheism, Percy attended anatomy classes for a term at St Bartholomew\u2019s hospital in London.. \u201cOne of the things she would have got from talking to her husband about laboratories was that they were really filthy places,\u201d Groom said. \u201cThe cadavers would be in a state of advanced putrefaction when they arrived. These were not antiseptic places full of chaps in white coats. They were unpleasant. The word filthy turns up a lot in Frankenstein. There was something really disreputable about medical science, which Mary Shelley is fascinated in.\u201d She would have been aware of notorious public experiments involving galvanism. \u201cThere was a particularly chilling one in London in 1803 when galvanism was used on the body of an executed criminal,\u201d Groom said. \u201cThe very first thing that happened was that the corpse opened its eyes. A very Frankenstein moment.\u201d At the time Mary was writing, the rights of animals had become a concern for many of the intelligentsia. \u201cThe being that Victor creates knows he\u2019s not human but still believes that he should have rights,\u201d Groom said. \u201cPart of the conundrum of the novel is, do you afford comparable rights to non-human sentient creatures?\u201d Two centuries on, the novel continues to shape contemporary thinking, Groom suggested, posing questions about matters such as artificial intelligence and genetic modification. But Mary\u2019s astonishing foresight has yet to be fully recognised. \u201cHer reputation has been overtaken by the films, which have oversimplified these questions in ways that don\u2019t really reflect the sophistication of her novel,\u201d Groom said. \u201cBoris Karloff\u2019s monster has none of the subtlety that the being has in the novel. He\u2019s not a zombie, he\u2019s intelligent and sentient. \u201cPeople need to see this as a novel for today. It\u2019s very much entangled with the pressing questions of humanity, which still concern us.\u201d"
"22||Browse a bookshop: Simply Books, Bramhall, Cheshire\u201cThe bookshop hosts Spanish and Italian language classes, and 12 book clubs \u2013 four for adults and eight for children,\u201d says co-owner Andrew Cant, who opened the shop in 2002 with partner Sue Steel. \u201cFor the last few years we\u2019ve been running a community cinema in the local church hall, with screenings once a month.\u201d Top five sellers \u2022 Eleanor Oliphant Is Completely Fine Gail Honeyman \u2022 The Lost Words Robert Macfarlane and Jackie Morris \u2022 Wonder RJ Palacio \u2022 Cousins Salley Vickers \u2022 Goodnight Stories for Rebel Girls Elena Favilli and Francesca Cavallo Five recommendations \u2022 The Good People Hannah Kent \u201cA harrowing story of belief and superstition set in rural Ireland in the 1820s.\u201d \u2022 Mend the Living Maylis de Kerangal \u201cA remarkable novel, which elevates the simple tale of a heart transplant into a compelling epic.\u201d \u2022 Olive Kitteridge Elizabeth Strout \u201cThe intimate portrait of a small community told through the eyes of a \u2018difficult woman\u2019.\u201d \u2022 Bodies of Light Sarah Moss \u201cMesmerising. The gripping story of the first women to train for medicine, with a dash of industrial Manchester and the pre-Raphaelites.\u201d \u2022 A Fine Balance Rohinton Mistry \u201cThe humbling story of four lives caught in the drama of India\u2019s mid\u201170s state of emergency. A book that changes the way you see the world.\u201d Simply Books, 228 Moss Lane, Bramhall, Cheshire SK7 1BD; simplybooks.info"
"15||Leveson 2 is off but relations between press and power are little changedSo much has changed since 2011, before Brexit or fake news dominated the newspapers; but how much has really changed in the press since the height of the phone hacking scandal threatened to blow it apart? The government is convinced a revolution has taken place. Culture secretary Matt Hancock has now scrapped any further Leveson inquiry into the press and its relationship with the police force: \u201cThe world has changed,\u201d he said. In the years since the press standards inquiry was launched, the News of the World has closed down, many people have gone to jail, and millions have been paid out to victims of press intrusion. But the industry still looks and feels essentially the same. For a start the same people are in charge: the Murdochs and Rebekah Brooks at News International; and Paul Dacre and Viscount Rothermere at the Daily Mail. The prime minister hosted a private dinner for the Mail editor-in-chief within six months of moving into Downing Street, and managed to \u201cbump into\u201d Rupert Murdoch during her first trip to New York after taking office. No one was surprised when Hancock jettisoned not only any further inquiry but also section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act \u2013 which obliges media organisations to pay the legal costs of libel cases whether they win or not \u2013 because Theresa May\u2019s team had put the pledge to do so in her hastily assembled Conservative manifesto last year. While the relationship between the press and power \u2013 in essence what Judge Leveson wanted an inquiry into \u2013 is remarkably unchanged, the market itself is not. Not only have newspaper circulation falls continued but so has the loss of advertising revenue to online media giants such as Facebook and Google. Yet the biggest sign of the changing tectonic plates in the media industry could well have come last week with the first sign that Murdoch\u2019s own ambitions have been stymied not by government and regulators but by an even bigger rival. Just two days before Hancock\u2019s announcement, the Murdoch family\u2019s long-held ambitions to own the whole of Sky faced a far mightier opponent than a government with a wafer thin majority. Comcast, a telecoms and entertainment giant valued by the market at some $184bn (\u00a3130bn) \u2013 more than twice the value of 21st Century Fox \u2013 looks set to outfox the man who started Sky in 1989 and built it into Europe\u2019s most significant satellite television platform. By offering 16% more to Sky shareholders, who have been waiting for over a year while competition regulators agonise over the possibility of increasing Murdoch\u2019s dominance, Comcast has highlighted that market economics can trump media power. The appearance of a huge US business, the owner of NBC television and Universal Studios, to spoil Murdoch\u2019s takeover plans, shores up his argument for a merger with Disney. Despite the local power held by his newspapers \u2013 which is largely unchanged \u2013 the Murdoch media empire is relatively small compared with the Apples and Amazons of the world. Comcast makes a fortune from telecommunications in the US but revenues from the rest of its business are just 9% of its total. In this game of superscale, Murdoch\u2019s desire to control Sky has twice been held up by regulatory questions over the behaviour of his employees: first through phone hacking, then with sexual harassment allegations. It\u2019s worth pointing out that Comcast, like so many media groups, has been tarnished by the latter: its television network NBC fired its best known presenter Matt Lauer amid harassment allegations last year. Competition may have led to global expansion but, as the battle with online news sources has intensified, newspapers such as the Mail have doubled down on their power over politics by sticking pictures of their Brexit \u201cenemies\u201d on their front cover. The thing about the newspaper market is that increased competition and the race for more readers led to increasingly salacious stories of the rich and famous or the powerless. The endgame was a culture of excess which allowed illegal acts such as phone hacking to go unchecked. The saga is not over, of course. Hancock\u2019s announcement to parliament was met with jeers, and there will be a showdown with the House of Lords, which backed pro-Leveson amendments. But few believe the next phase of Leveson will happen, even in the face of further legal threats. Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn appeared to threaten media owners with his view that \u201cchange is coming\u201d in a video last month. The irony will be that, if Comcast wins, which analysts believe possible, it will be the market which has done for Murdoch, not the people or politicians. This week has also shown that the victims of some of the worst press abuses deserve better supporters. It may be fair enough that celebrities are sick of having details of their private lives splashed over the front pages or of being hounded in the street, but it still feels like a failure for the Dowler and the McCann families that their hero should come in the form of a man who once held despicable racist views. The Mail this week produced a pamphlet from 1961 linking \u201ccoloured immigrants\u201d with the spread of disease, an election leaflet \u201cpublished by Max Mosley\u201d. Whatever the coincidental timing of this ahead of the Leveson announcement, Mosley made a pretty appalling fist of excusing his behaviour this week on Channel 4 News. He couldn\u2019t remember the pamphlets and so, of course, had not perjured himself. Were the leaflets even real or just made up by the Mail; was that really his name at the bottom of an election document calling for \u201ccoloured immigrants\u201d to be sent back to Jamaica? On it went. The allegations are awkward not just for the victims of press abuse Mosley has supported with his large fortune and his time, but for Impress, the Leveson-compliant regulator which he funds, and for the deputy Labour leader, Tom Watson. The MP has refused to give up the \u00a3500,000 or so donated by Mosley to his campaign team, and said essentially that Mosley was a changed man from the one who allegedly supported his fascist father\u2019s far right Union Movement. \u201cIf I thought for one moment he held those views contained in that leaflet of 57 years ago, I would not have given him the time of day.\u201d There have been many genuine victims of press abuse \u2013 from grieving parents to the relatives of the Hillsborough disaster. They deserve better. Trinity Mirror has more than 110 regional newspaper titles, over 60 websites and seven national newspaper titles. And just the one female editor. Its \u00a3200m takeover of the Express, the Star and several celebrity magazines and websites prompted the departure of the longest serving female national newspaper editor, Dawn Neesom, editor of the Daily Star for 15 years. In a new roster of six national newspaper editors, Alison Phillips became the sole woman as the newly-appointed editor of the Daily Mirror. Neesom may have been the longest serving female editor but her paper, like others in the stable, did little to challenge sexism. The irony is that Phillips is also the head of the group\u2019s Women Together network at the now enlarged group. A better moniker might be \u201cA woman alone at the top\u201d."
"0||Number of illegal raves in London doubles in a yearThe number of illegal raves in London has soared, police figures reveal, with a steep decline in the number of nightclubs in the capital one of the key causes. The number of unlicensed raves in London, often held in warehouses or abandoned buildings, has nearly doubled since 2016. Plans for 133 unlicensed raves were identified by the Metropolitan police in 2017, up from 70 the previous year, according to figures obtained by a freedom of information request carried out by the Sunday Telegraph. One explanation for the rise is the rapid decline in the number of traditional venues, with more than half of all London clubs shutting down between 2005 and 2015, according to the Association of Licensed Multiple Retailers (ALMR). Since 2015, the number of licensed hospitality premises has dropped by 3% across the UK. Among the casualties have been Plastic People, Cable, and Dance Tunnel in London, The Arches in Glasgow, and Sankeys in Manchester. The rising cost of drinks could also be putting revellers off nightclubs. Going to a pub is becoming an unaffordable luxury, according to a report published in September by consumer rights group Camra, publisher of the Good Pub Guide. DJ and author Bill Brewster, who was one of the first resident DJs at legendary nightclub Fabric, said that it was not surprising that illegal raves are becoming more popular. The gentrification of inner cities is making it \u201ctougher for night clubs to open or continuing existing\u201d because of complaints about the noise and the night clubs that have stayed open are forced to charge clubbers more in order to stay open because of increasing rent, he said. Brewster said this is putting young people off going to nightclubs and leading them to look for alternative places to party. \u201cA lot of young people are looking for something a little bit transgressive. I think it\u2019s innate in teenagers and people in their early twenties to want to do stuff they\u2019re not supposed to do. And even though raves are illegal, most of them don\u2019t do much harm apart from giving a few people a poor night\u2019s sleep.\u201d He added: \u201cIn an ideal world, there would be lots of places for night clubs to open that don\u2019t disturb the neighbours but we live in a flawed world and it\u2019s becoming harder to throw parties in city centres.\u201d In the last three years, police have introduced new processes for tackling the planned but unlicensed music events and have begun using covert tactics to try to stay one step ahead of organisers. DCI John Oldham, the head of crime at the Met\u2019s public order command, said: \u201cUsing covert tactics, we try and understand who the organiser is and where they live. We\u2019ve woken up to the problem and put out a much higher intelligence requirement to identify these things.\u201d Once events are identified police will instigate disruption tactics to try to discourage the event from going ahead. If unsuccessful, road blocks are put in place and dog units and riot police sent in to break up events. Undercover \u201cdrug users\u201d will also be used to try and identify drug dealers. \u201cIf you are dealing with something like drug dealing you need to put someone in to buy the drugs or to pretend to be a drug user,\u201d Oldham said."
"3||Merkel secures fourth term in power after SPD backs coalition dealAngela Merkel has secured her fourth term in power after Germany\u2019s Social Democratic party (SPD) agreed to form another \u201cgrand coalition\u201d government with the conservative Christian Democratic Union (CDU). The SPD announcement ends almost six months of uncertainty in German politics, the longest the country has been without a government in its postwar history, and puts Europe\u2019s largest economy in a position to answer the challenges for EU reform laid down by the French president, Emmanuel Macron. Congratulating the SPD for its \u201cclear result\u201d, Merkel said she was looking forward to \u201cfurther cooperation for the good of our country,\u201d according to a tweet attributed to her on her CDU party\u2019s account. Macron\u2019s office welcomed the decision, saying \u201cthis is good news for Europe.\u201d But with both Merkel\u2019s party and the SPD facing internal calls for a programmatic reboot and the far-right Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland (AfD) now the biggest opposition party in parliament, the new government\u2019s stability will likely be tested. When the Social Democrat treasurer, Dietmar Nietan, announced on Sunday morning that a majority of SPD members had given the green light to a new \u201cGroKo\u201d or \u201cgrand coalition\u201d, it was met with quiet relief rather than enthusiastic applause. \u201cWe now have some clarity,\u201d said the Social Democrats\u2019 caretaker leader, Olaf Scholz, a contender for the role of finance minister, speaking at Willy Brandt House in Berlin, the party\u2019s headquarters. \u201cThe SPD will enter into government.\u201d Only muffled cheers from behind the closed doors of the headquarters minutes earlier gave a hint of the weight of expectation that weeks of turmoil had piled on the centre-left party\u2019s leadership. A majority of 66.02% of 463,723 eligible SPD members voted in favour of renewing the constellation that has governed Germany for the last four years \u2013 a more decisive outcome than a narrow vote among delegates in January had indicated, but also a diminished achievement compared with the 76% who had endorsed a grand coalition four years ago. In the wake of historically disappointing results at federal elections last September, the SPD leader, Martin Schulz, had initially ruled out joining Merkel in government. But the collapse of talks to form an unorthodox \u201cJamaica\u201d coalition between Merkel\u2019s conservatives, the pro-business Free Democrats and the Green party forced the German centre-left back to the negotiating table. With its back against the wall, the SPD managed to secure a surprising victory in getting the chancellor to cede control of the influential finance ministry. A Young Socialists youth wing led by Kevin K\u00fchnert, an energetic 28-year-old, nevertheless put together an effective campaign that encouraged members to reject the deal that the party\u2019s senior leadership had agreed with Merkel\u2019s CDU. Europe\u2019s oldest social democratic party needed to reinvent itself in opposition if it wanted to avoid the fate of the French socialists, the \u201cNo GroKo\u201d camp argued. Watching the announcement of the membership vote result on Sunday, K\u00fchnert expressed his disappointment but indicated that he could continue to play an active role in the debate over the German left\u2019s future. \u201cDisappointment undoubtedly prevails among many Young Socialists and myself,\u201d he said, adding that the SPD now had to rise to the difficult challenge of renewing its identity while in government. \u201cWe will keep a close eye on the government \u2013 on both of its sides.\u201d Following the resignation of the failed candidate for chancellor Martin Schulz, the Social Democrats are likely to next month elect the former labour minister Andrea Nahles as the first female leader in its 155-year history. A former leader of the Young Socialists who was once seen as a rising star on the party\u2019s left wing, Nahles will try to reverse her party\u2019s decline by establishing a more combative and confrontational approach with the CDU. This week, the SPD will discuss the contenders for its six ministerial post, with the interim leader, Olaf Scholz, confirming on Sunday that his party will supply three female and three male ministers. Merkel is due to be officially sworn in as chancellor on 14 March. Scholz, a liberal centrist and the mayor of Hamburg, is mooted to replace the CDU veteran Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble in the powerful finance ministry, where he will have to pay lip service to his predecessor\u2019s dogma of a balanced budget while simultaneously meeting a commitment to increase Germany\u2019s contributions to the EU budget, as outlined in the coalition deal. \u201cWe don\u2019t want to prescribe to other European states how they should develop,\u201d Scholz said in a recent interview with Der Spiegel. \u201cMistakes have certainly been made in that regard in the past. And we need to ask ourselves how to deal with the consequences of Brexit.\u201d Merkel, meanwhile, has to juggle more immediate challenges on the international stage with a long-term task of arranging her successorship in a way that does not reverse a legacy of moving the CDU into the centre of the political spectrum. The new party secretary, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, looks like the centrist candidate best equipped to moderate calls for a \u201cconservative revolution\u201d from the Bavarian Christian Social Union (CSU), which will be in charge of the interior ministry, and the ambitious new health minister, Jens Spahn. In the short run, the various political factions that make up Germany\u2019s government will have to learn to pull together to face a looming twin threat to the country\u2019s important car industry. Merkel will have to draw on all of the diplomatic know-how acquired in her 13 years in power to find a response to Donald Trump\u2019s threat to tax Europe-made cars. Closer to home, Merkel and her ministers also have find innovative ways to avert bans on diesel cars in highly polluted cities such as Stuttgart or D\u00fcsseldorf, rendered legal by a court ruling last week, which would affect millions of drivers."
"22||Book clinic: what modern classics would you recommend for preteens?Q: One of my superiors wants me to start a book club with the 10 children, aged 11-13, in years 7 and 8 who have the highest reading ages. I worry that forcing them to read \u201cclassics\u201d \u2013 the kind of books she has in mind \u2013 will put them off reading challenging texts for ever. What classics (with a lower case C) would you recommend? (This is kind of a moot question because there isn\u2019t any money to buy books, but what the hell\u2026) English teacher, 24, Nottinghamshire A: Phil Earle, award-winning children and young adults author A book doesn\u2019t need to be penned a hundred years ago to be a classic, and there are many wonderful, enduring novels written in the past two decades that will fuel young imaginations. The London Eye Mystery by Siobhan Dowd is a great place to start. If Mark Haddon channelled his inner Agatha Christie, it would look something like this, as a young sleuth hunts for his cousin \u2013 who gets on the Eye, but never steps off. I also adore AF Harrold and Emily Gravett\u2019s The Imaginary. Reminiscent of Neil Gaiman at his very best, this tale of imaginary friends is by turns funny, touching and terrifying. The perfect marriage of words and pictures. The second world war has been a springboard for many a tale of derring-do, and one of the finest is Sandi Toksvig\u2019s Hitler\u2019s Canary. I can\u2019t recommend this story of Nazi-occupied Denmark enough: it has terrific warmth and is brilliantly accessible, despite its period setting. Finally, not one book, but three. Brock, Rook and Pike are written by Anthony McGowan and published by Barrington Stoke, who specialise in books for people with dyslexia and reluctant readers. Imagine Barry Hines resetting Of Mice and Men in the north of England and you\u2019ll have a sense of the tone. Never have three sparsely written novellas packed such an emotional punch. Not a word is wasted and, for me, they are the absolute definition of the word \u201cclassic\u201d. If you\u2019ve got a question for Book Clinic, submit it below or email bookclinic@observer.co.uk"
"12||May I have a word about\u2026 applying jargon to everyday life?Last week, on a well-earned break from the coalface, I was in my local, reading the local paper, which, as legend has it, is known as the Squeaker in deference to its subservient position to the Thunderer. The splash devoted itself to the subject of making this delightful market town more pedestrian friendly. The town society was quoted thus, and I don\u2019t apologise for quoting from it liberally: \u201cWe want to hear from as many views as possible, so we can feed them back into the Shared Space process. The workshop is to share thoughts on how best the shared space can be designed to provide access for everyone\u2026This includes shop and business owners, pedestrians, wheelchair users, mums with buggies, pushchairs and trollies, cyclists, public transport and delivery vehicles. The event will also look at street furniture, noticeboards, town centre trees and other planting. Conclusions from the meeting will, in some form, be included in any possible development brief.\u201d For heaven\u2019s sake, where to start? \u201cShared space process\u201d? \u201cWorkshop\u201d? \u201cTown centre trees\u201d? \u201cEvent\u201d? Why on earth must people who seek to represent the views of small towns try to emulate, in their orotund phrases, the very worst of corporate speak? This is a market town, not the old quarter of Chicago. If you\u2019re going to seek the counsel of wheelchair users and mums with buggies, why not also heed the advice of candlestick makers, lion tamers and flower arrangers to achieve a shared space process? On the subject of locals, I deprecate the manner of some who come into the pub and, when asked what they would like to drink, say: \u201cI think I\u2019ll do a pint of Guinness.\u201d \u201cDo\u201d? May I have\u201d has served perfectly well for some years now."
"3||Italian election: can 'gentleman' Gentiloni steady the ship after the vote?Italy\u2019s caretaker prime minister, Paolo Gentiloni, has been touted as a potential leader in a possible \u201cgrand coalition\u201d government after national elections on Sunday, and could offer Italy a steady hand if the vote results in a hung parliament as expected. As trepidation builds over the outcome of this most complex and unpredictable of elections, Gentiloni, who was thrust into the top job in December 2016 after predecessor Matteo Renzi\u2019s defeat in a plebiscite on constitutional reforms, is seen by many as one of the leaders most capable of stabilising the government while sustaining recent economic gains. However, the 63-year-old, who is described as a gentleman even by his political opponents, will first have to win a seat in his Rome 1 constituency, which encompasses the city\u2019s historic centre and where victory is far from guaranteed. In what the Italian media have described as \u201cGentilonimania\u201d, endorsements flooded in during the campaign. Giorgio Napolitano, the widely respected former president, backed him to stay on as prime minister, saying he is \u201cessential for governability\u201d. Gentiloni is also admired beyond Italy, with the French president, Emmanuel Macron, saying in January that \u201cEurope is very fortunate to have Mr Gentiloni in his role\u201d. Warm words aside, Gentiloni faces a challenge in Rome amid a shift in the national mood towards rightwing parties and the demise of his Democratic party. The municipality, which was won by Berlusconi after his first election campaign in 1994, is traditionally rightwing. \u201cIt\u2019s a bourgeois kind of place and only really became leftwing about a decade ago,\u201d said Massimiliano Panarari, a politics professor at Rome\u2019s Luiss University. \u201cThis kind of constituency tends to support a party when it is popular and the problem right now is the bandwagon effect, which is leaning more towards the centre-right.\u201d Gentiloni, who was born in Rome to a well-regarded family, was a virtual unknown when he was picked by Renzi, who regained leadership of the Democratic party after his referendum defeat, as foreign minister in 2014. Coming to the role with no foreign ministerial experience, analysts said at the time that he was purely being rewarded for his loyalty. Meanwhile, an attempt to become mayor of Rome in 2013 ended with him finishing third in the Democratic party\u2019s primaries. While Gentiloni is likely to stay on as caretaker prime minister if the vote produces a hung parliament, he had also been tipped as leader of a possible grand coalition between Forza Italia and the Democratic party, though this is not the most likely outcome of Sunday\u2019s vote. Silvio Berlusconi, the former prime minister and billionaire forced out of office in 2011 under a cloud of scandal, has said he would favour the European parliament president, Antonio Tajani, for prime minister, should the rightwing coalition he heads wins a majority in the election. Still, Italians have consistently ranked Gentiloni as the country\u2019s most popular politician in polls over recent months. He is often likened to Mario Monti and Enrico Letta, two previous caretaker prime ministers. \u201cThere is a sympathy towards Gentiloni but we still don\u2019t know his real electoral power,\u201d said Mattia Diletti, a politics professor at Rome\u2019s Sapienza University. \u201cEven Monti was popular, but he didn\u2019t win. He\u2019s not charismatic \u2026 he\u2019s in government but he\u2019s not a popular leader.\u201d"
"22||In brief: Grief Works; Love After Love; Mothers \u2013 reviewGrief Works Julia Samuel Penguin Life, \u00a312.99, pp304 For 25 years, Julia Samuel has worked as a grief therapist. In this wise and eloquent book, she shares case studies of different types of bereaved patient \u2013 partners, parents, siblings, children \u2013 arguing that it is not grief itself that damages us, but our inability to deal with the pain it brings. Her empathy resonates from the pages as she acknowledges that is hard work \u201cadjusting to this new version of ourselves\u201d. But she also argues that \u201closs is intrinsic to the human experience\u2026 in order to live truly, to experience life fully, we need to be able to accept that\u201d. Love After Love Alex Hourston Faber, \u00a312.99, pp336 Nancy is a therapist, married with children. Superficially, her life is a dream: large London house, thoughtful and creative husband, extended family who regularly pop round for garrulous meals. But Nancy is having an affair with an older colleague, and her love for him reduces her availability for her family. Meanwhile, the disappearance of her itinerant brother, David, highlights their codependent sibling relationship. Nancy is too narcissistic and selfish to invite any great sympathy, or to make a believable therapist. But Hourston immerses the reader in the moral, emotional and practical dilemmas of infidelity in this well-crafted cautionary tale. Mothers Chris Power Faber, \u00a310, pp304 A man struggles with his sexuality at a wedding in Mexico. A father remembers a childhood incident of sexual harassment and fears for his young daughters. A woman with depression travels from country to country, unable to escape her pain and isolation. In Chris Power\u2019s debut collection of short stories, characters cannot decide whether they crave change or are terrified of it. Travel is a recurrent theme, with characters realising too late that however far they run, they always take themselves with them. In these stories of quiet desperation, there is the constant threat that psychosis is just around the corner, and we are left with the unsettling question of whether the past will inevitably catch up with us. \u2022 To order Grief Works for \u00a38.49, Love After Love for \u00a311.04 or Mothers for \u00a38.50 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"23||Sea snail broth? What\u2019s on the menu at the all-new Noma?The last of 16 courses from the debut seafood menu at the born-again restaurant Noma in Copenhagen is a plankton cake: a Kermit-green hockey puck, dusted with a reddish powder. Perhaps it was the cognitive dissonance of \u201cplankton\u201d and \u201ccake\u201d, but even now I don\u2019t even know if I liked it or not. Before that, there had been venus clams, dried sea cucumber ovaries, ant sauce and sea snail broth \u2013 not as discombobulating as the plankton, but Instagram-pretty and cunningly delicious; a triumph of fresh thinking, immaculate technique and great suppliers. Noma is perhaps the most influential restaurant of the past decade, responsible for all the foraged, pickled and dried stuff you see on menus everywhere. But in February last year, its head chef, Ren\u00e9 Redzepi, decided to close, throw all the pieces up in the air and see where they landed. His united nations of chefs has landed on a former patch of wasteland on the edge of the city, where the Danish starchitect Bjarke Ingels has designed a complex of buildings inspired by the traditional Scandinavian s\u00e6ter, or farmstead. The kitchen has glass ceilings so that chefs get to see daylight; the main dining room is a soothing oak cocoon accented with dried fish and seaweed. Eventually, there will be greenhouses, rooftop gardens, a sauna and vegetable plots. It is what El Bulli might have become had Ferran Adri\u00e0 not tired of hospitality. As Redzepi serves us a sea urchin, beach rose and pumpkin-seed dish that sends flavour memories hadron-colliding round my mind, the man\u2019s restless energy is almost tangible. Days after reopening, he is already talking about where the next pop-up may be. The usual caveats apply: some of the food is challenging and much is tweezered, but if you\u2019re not keen on opera, you don\u2019t go to see Parsifal. This isn\u2019t comfort food. You may want to plan for a Copenhagen hotdog an hour or so afterwards. My Danish companion and I argue whether it is \u201chyggelig\u201d. I say not \u2013 there are no candles or bread and butter. She says the staff and natural materials make it so. Has Noma done it again? Can it reach the heights which saw it crowned the best restaurant in the world a record four times? No question, should it wish to, but this feels to me like the beginning of a whole new journey."
"14||Has the time come for a wealth tax in the UK?Tax may as well be a four letter word. Politicians have found little public support for raising taxes over the years. Think of the poll tax riots, the furore over Ed Miliband\u2019s mansion tax or George Osborne\u2019s \u201comnishambles\u201d budget and the pickle he was in over the humble pasty. Usually the most resistance is reserved for wealth taxes, not least for their doom-laden names given by the media: no voter wants to pay for death tax or dementia tax. Denis Healey, the Labour chancellor misquoted for wanting to \u201csqueeze the rich until the pips squeak\u201d, came closest, with a 1974 election wealth tax pledge but was forced to backtrack. The pips would have squeaked a little too loud for comfort. Fast forward and the time has come to make the case for greater wealth taxes, given our emerging economic realities, demographic shifts and growing levels of inequality. The alternative is a country bereft of welfare support, or wallowing in ever-greater mountains of debt. The latest politician to push for a change of tone may raise a few eyebrows. It isn\u2019t John McDonnell or Jeremy Corbyn, but David Willetts, the Conservative peer who was a universities minister under David Cameron. Lord Willetts will attempt to make the case for greater wealth taxes in a speech on Monday. The reasons are clear. The public purse will be out of pocket by roughly \u00a3160bn by the mid-2060s as the number of people over 65 grows by almost a third, while the working age population is expected to only increase by about 2%. The government\u2019s own forecaster, the Office for Budget Responsibility, reckons healthcare spending will need to almost double from 6.9% of GDP in the early 2020s to 12.6% by the mid-2060s because of demographic shift alone. More people will become net beneficiaries of the welfare state than net contributors could support, according to analysis by the Resolution Foundation, which Willetts chairs. That is unsustainable; regardless of how efficiently the state spends our taxes and which party is in power. |The divide between rich and poor is growing and it\u2019s proving increasingly difficult to earn your way to riches. Wealth taxes are being considered as a result, with work also being done by the Institute for Public Policy and Research expected to be published next month. The level of wealth in Britain \u2013 including property, cash savings, shares and pensions \u2013 rose by 15% in the two years to June 2016 to a record \u00a312.8tn. But that vast stockpile is unevenly spread: the top 10% of households owned almost half, while the poorest fifth\u2019s overall wealth decline in real terms. The divisions of wealth are far starker than differences in pay. According to the Office for National Statistics, the top 10% of households by income earn 6.8 times more than those on the lowest rung, but the wealthiest 10th of households have 290 times more in total assets than those at the bottom of the pile. Barring great luck or skilled entrepreneurship \u2013 in itself something easier to embark upon for the children of the wealthy \u2013 it\u2019s nigh-on impossible to earn your way to riches. Nowhere is the myth of the plucky grafter better torn apart than in a new book by the writer James Bloodworth, who spent six months living and working in low-wage Britain for companies like Amazon and Uber. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos may be the richest man in the world, but his workers in Warrington, Rugeley, Swansea and elsewhere may never join the uber-elite for all the hours they toil. Bloodworth was paid the equivalent of \u00a312,740 a year to work gruelling shifts packing boxes full of books and DVDs. The Joseph Rowntree Foundation estimates pay of \u00a317,100 is needed just to achieve a minimum standard of living. The trouble would be implementing the changes required. Polling shows wealth taxes are viewed as the most unfair way for the government to raise money, even though the accumulation of wealth is often passive \u2013 particularly for property owners. Part of the problem is trust in government to spend taxes well. Labour has a particular issue given Tory attacks since the financial crisis \u2013 labelling the mess as \u201cLabour\u2019s recession\u201d caused by profligate overspending. It was time for collective belt-tightening in penance for the excesses of the past. \u201cWe will not burden our children and grandchildren,\u201d ran the Tory mantra. Now a former Conservative cabinet member will say the same to justify raising taxes, rather than cutting spending. Willets will argue the time has come for baby boomers to reach into their pockets to benefit younger generations. The age of tax cuts is over, he will say. Instead, politics will be about who pays more and how much. \u201cWe need a well-funded welfare state capable of helping us in our old age and we should help pay for it, rather than expecting our hard-pressed children and grandchildren to bear the whole burden,\u201d he is expected to say. Given his time in government included hiking student tuition fees up to \u00a39,250 a year, he should expect accusations of hypocrisy. But Labour would do better to use his message as a catalyst for consensus building. Britain already has some versions of wealth taxes that could be reformed. Council tax, still reliant on property values as they were in 1991, would be the obvious place to start. Inheritance tax is another. The bulk of money left each year in inheritances has more than doubled in past 20 years, and will more than double again over the next two decades. There is a danger that greater wealth taxes could impoverish those who are asset rich but cash poor. Not all those living on millionaire\u2019s row are actually millionaires \u2013 unless they sell and move somewhere cheaper. So the design of any increase in wealth taxation would be key. The French economist Thomas Pikketty has argued that without change, inheritance will eventually matter a lot more when determining a person\u2019s life chances, as it did in ancient societies. Past wealth, he says, will tend to dominate new wealth \u2013 and successors will tend to dominate labour earners. The time now is not for turning the clock back. Instead, the time for a wealth tax has come."
"5||Saturday Night Live: White House as Waffle House at 2amAlec Baldwin is back! Of course he is. \u201cNobody is allowed to have a gun, not even whites,\u201d says Baldwin-as-Trump, after reading thoughtful comments from an index card. Then Trump explains how he\u2019ll \u201cmake America\u2019s schools safe all by myself\u201d. \u201cEven without a weapon, I\u2019d burst through the doors \u2013 I\u2019m actually a very fast runner \u2013 the guy with a gun wouldn\u2019t even know what hit him.\u2019 He reflects on his recent loss of staff: \u201cHope Hicks. She\u2019s like a daughter to me: so smart. So hot.\u201d Now Trump is basically on his own, he says, but he has a strategy. \u201cI said I was going to run this country like a business. That business is a Waffle House at 2am. Crazies everywhere, staff walking out in the middle of their shift, cashiers taking money out of the register to pay the Russian mob.\u201d Kate McKinnon as Jeff Sessions joins in for the old refrain: live from New York. You know. SNL has been on hiatus for a month thanks to the Olympics, so it\u2019s appropriate they\u2019ve picked an athlete to host. But not that kind of athlete. It\u2019s Charles Barkley. \u201cWhy is Charles Barkley hosting Saturday Night Live?\u201d my husband asks. \u201cA lot of athletes are worried that speaking out might hurt their career,\u201d Barkley says. \u201cWell, here\u2019s one thing that contradicts that: me. I\u2019m hosting SNL for the fourth time \u2013 for no reason!\u201d He tries one: \u201cLorne Michaels wanted someone to talk about Black Panther with.\u201d Barkley reminisces about Barack Obama\u2019s 50th birthday party, and then banters with Michael Che before sending out a special message to LeBron James: \u201cLeBron: keep on dribbling and never shut up. And maybe one day you can host SNL for the fourth time just like me.\u201d It\u2019s The Grabbies! Like the Oscars, but for sex pests. Cecily Strong and Beck Bennett are covering the red carpet. \u201cSo many men have been accused of so many things in Hollywood this year, but who will take home the coveted Grabby?\u201d Strong says. Pete Davison\u2019s character has been nominated for \u201cMost Open Robe\u201d. \u201cFirst,\u201d he says, \u201cI\u2019d like to thank guns for pivoting the national conversation away from harassment, and I\u2019d like to thank my uncle for saying, \u2018Boys will be boys!\u2019 even when it was, like, OJ.\u201d And then Barkley, in the running for \u201cMost Non-Apology\u201d. He\u2019s not wearing a Time\u2019s Up pin. \u201cIt\u2019s a Tim\u2019s Up!\u201d he says, \u201cbecause my name is Tim and I\u2019m up for everything.\u201d Next: fake commercial for \u201cNed\u2019s Roach Away\u201d. Barkley is Ned and he knows \u201cthe only way to stop a bad roach is a good roach with a gun.\u201d An animation shows gun-toting roaches shooting regular roaches with rifles. Roach Away Ned comes in with a bump stock. \u201cYou don\u2019t need pest control,\u201d he concludes. \u201cYou need pest solutions.\u201d I believe that\u2019s called a three-pointer. Or a swish? Whatever. Actually hilarious. Homework Hotline: Barkley is Mr Leonard, with his study buddy, a puppet called Bobo, taking calls to help kids with homework but plagued with sexually inappropriate prank calls. Next skit: baseball player Alex Rodriguez makes a cameo appearance alongside Barkley and Kenan Thompson. It\u2019s strained. Then, Migos are here! They are all wearing remarkable sweaters while they sing Stir Fry and dance under red globe lanterns. Weekend Update! Oh, they have so much to update. \u201cWho still works in the government?\u201d says Colin Jost. \u201cAt this point the government is like that dead mall in your hometown.\u201d They turn to gun control. \u201cAnother solution proposes that we should give guns to teachers, and I tried to seriously consider that idea \u2026 but then I remembered that I had Catholic nuns as teachers growing up, and they should definitely not have guns. \u201cMaybe we can stop pretending that hunting is a sport, because it\u2019s not,\u201d says Che, \u201cI\u2019ve never seen a deer get shot and then shake the hunter\u2019s hand and say \u2018good game\u2019.\u201d Hope Hicks is here \u2013 or rather, Cecily Strong as Hope Hicks. \u201cThe media\u2019s been so nice to me,\u201d she says, \u201cinsanely nice to me.\u201d \u201cWhy do you think they\u2019ve been so nice to you?\u201d says Jost. \u201cIf I had to guess I\u2019d say it\u2019s because my hair and face are good.\u201d Kyle Mooney arrives to discuss the Oscars and fish for an invitation to Jost\u2019s viewing party even though he and Che obviously don\u2019t like him. It\u2019s not funny. Then Leslie Jones is here with her Olympics report! She\u2019s wearing a USA T-shirt. \u201cIt turned out that my favorite event was hockey! How come no one told me about hockey? It\u2019s violence on ice! If I played hockey, they would call me Penalty Box Jones, because that\u2019s where I would be the whole game.\u201d Jost offers to show her \u201csome moves\u201d but Jones doesn\u2019t need him: she\u2019s joined at the desk by Hilary Knight, gold medal-winning US women\u2019s hockey player. \u201cI hear you played hockey growing up and you\u2019re going to show us some moves,\u201d Knight says to Jost. Her delivery isn\u2019t bad. It\u2019s not Charles Barkley, but it\u2019s not bad. A dating show sketch is next and fairly unfunny, though Aidy Bryant is, as ever, terrific. Next: men on a construction site are drilling and observing women passing by, but politely. \u201cYou can\u2019t get that shade of magenta in men\u2019s clothes,\u201d Barkley complains. \u201cI wonder,\u201d says Thompson, \u201cif I was a woman, what would my style be?\u201d Eventually Beck Bennett storms off the site, unhappy with the other men\u2019s ideas for what he could wear if he was a woman. I shake my head in light disappointment. Migos sing Narcos. They\u2019ve changed into a range of remarkable leather jackets. And the final sketch: McKinnon drinking alone in a bar on Oscar night, apparently so repulsive that she drives Thompson, the bartender, to join Isis. She tries to seduce Barkley. \u201cLet\u2019s go back to my place and do missionary,\u201d she says, \u201cthat\u2019s where you try to teach me English and get frustrated and leave the country.\u201d She licks a deodorant to freshen her breath, and Barkley\u2019s. Thompson zips himself into a body bag. McKinnon and Barkley make out, wearing dental guards. It\u2019s a triumph of gross. And that\u2019s a wrap! As weird as the last sketch was, Barkley was arguably the most-game host this season. I can\u2019t wait until he comes back again for no reason."
"22||Philip Hensher: \u2018I don\u2019t know why anyone would go for Darcy when they could have Bingley\u2019Philip Hensher is the author of several novels and many short stories. He also wrote the libretto for Thomas Ad\u00e8s\u2019s opera Powder Her Face and is currently professor of creative writing at Bath Spa University. His 2008 novel The Northern Clemency was shortlisted for the Man Booker prize and Scenes From Early Life was awarded the 2013 Ondaatje prize. Born in south London, he grew up in Sheffield, the setting for his latest book, The Friendly Ones (4th Estate, \u00a314.99). This isn\u2019t your first state-of-the-nation novel based on two families living in the same street in Sheffield: it was also the scenario for The Northern Clemency. What made you revisit this idea? One of the things that I really wanted to talk about was the immigrant experience, which is why one of the families in the book is Bangladeshi. It is something we don\u2019t really talk about and is very much in my mind as I\u2019m married to a Bangladeshi. I think in England we often pride ourselves on getting on with people who are first- or second-generation immigrants but it\u2019s almost at the cost of not knowing very much about them. Because we like to pretend there\u2019s no difference between us? That\u2019s right, we\u2019re terrified of asking that question \u201cWhere are you from?\u201d I actually think \u201cWhere is your family originally from?\u201d is a perfectly OK question but people are frightened of asking it, so we don\u2019t find things out about each other. For instance, it was really only when I met Zaved [Mahmood, Hensher\u2019s husband] that I started to hear about something else I write about in this book, which is what actually happened in Bangladesh in 1971 [the Bengali genocide at the hands of the Pakistani military]. I\u2019d always had Bengali and Indian friends, but it never really occurred to me to ask, \u201cWhat did your family go through?\u201d I have to confess I barely knew about this until I read your book. It\u2019s one of the least known genocidal episodes in 20th-century history. It\u2019s a very, very raw subject for Bengalis. So I just wanted to write a book about how community and the bond between people from very different backgrounds can act as a cure for pain in the past. One of your characters, Leo, drops out of Oxford University after being bullied about his comprehensive school background in Sheffield. Was this based on your own experience? It was, yes. I didn\u2019t drop out, I stuck it out, but my first year was pretty tough. I\u2019d never been the target for bullying before and suddenly I was going through a lot of unpleasant experiences. There is a disturbing scene where a gang of well-to-do students bangs on Leo\u2019s door, taunting him. Did that happen to you? Yes, it did. It was just horrible. I remember thinking, after Christmas, \u201cI don\u2019t have to go back there\u201d. Then I put my iron bra on and was like, \u201cLook, this is going to go better\u201d. I think I made a bad decision at first. I\u2019d been out as gay at school but when I went to university I didn\u2019t tell anyone I was gay and I think, actually, that makes you very vulnerable. Even if people around you don\u2019t understand that you are gay, they understand that you are shutting up part of your personality and that makes you a target. So after that, when I went to do my PhD at Cambridge I just came out on day one and I\u2019ve been out ever since and it\u2019s been much easier. Another reason why Leo is hounded is that he says something offensive to a fellow student that is construed as sexual harassment. I couldn\u2019t work out whose side you were on with that. Can you enlighten me? I\u2019m very interested by the question of sexual harassment at the moment and I think sometimes there are clear-cut answers and sometimes there aren\u2019t. If somebody says to someone they\u2019ve met the day before, \u201cI\u2019d really like a shag\u201d and they say, \u201cActually, that\u2019s not going to happen\u201d and the first person says, \u201cOh, OK\u201d, what should the consequences of that be? I didn\u2019t want it to be totally black and white. Leo shouldn\u2019t have said what he did; he made the girl feel uncomfortable. But is what happens to him an appropriate punishment? Turning to literary matters, what books are on your bedside table? At the moment, it\u2019s The Adulterants by Joe Dunthorne, Peach by Emma Glass, and The Mermaid and Mrs Hancock by Imogen Hermes Gowar. You obviously like to keep up with what the newest novelists are doing. Definitely. I teach creative writing down at Bath Spa University and I\u2019ve just introduced a brilliantly insane module for my MAs called Writing Now. The idea is that all the books on the course are books that are published during the course, so we have no idea what they\u2019re going to be like when we open them. Which novelists and nonfiction writers writing today do you admire the most? Tim Winton, Zadie Smith. And, after an agnostic phase I\u2019m now back on Peter Carey. I think the new one [A Long Way Home] is terrific. Nonfiction? I would always, always read something David Kynaston wrote. I love his openness to a whole range of different people. That\u2019s what I always like in a book: lots of different lives and the way that people interact. What book might people be surprised to see on your bookshelf? Probably, the complete novels of Elmore Leonard. I\u2019m obsessed with Elmore, I think he\u2019s Mozart. What else would be surprising? I was going to say all of PG Wodehouse, but that\u2019s probably not surprising. Have you got a favourite literary hero or heroine? I once had a very interesting discussion with Doris Lessing about which fictional character she\u2019d like to have an affair with. And that\u2019s the question I\u2019d like to answer here. The fictional hero who I just want to embrace is Joachim in The Magic Mountain, preferably before he dies. I think he\u2019s wonderful. He\u2019s just kind of strong and reliable and a little bit shy. Oh, and he looks wonderful in a uniform. Also, he\u2019s a minor character. The characters I always really like in books are never the lead, always a secondary character. Take Pride and Prejudice: I don\u2019t know why anyone would go for Darcy when they could have Bingley. And Mr Knightley in Emma. Oh God, imagine having dinner with Knightley. What kind of reader were you as a child? Absolutely voracious, sucked it all in, totally indiscriminating about quality. Anything at all, from the back of a cereal packet to airport bestsellers. I went through a real Arthur Hailey phase when I was 11. It\u2019s actually the sort of reader I still am; I will read any old crap. Is there a book or author you always return to? Joseph Conrad. Any of his books in particular? Most of them. The one that I just read over and over again is Chance. It\u2019s very underrated. He can\u2019t really do women at all and doesn\u2019t usually even try but in that, there is a wonderful heroine and she\u2019s totally fascinating and extraordinary. It was his first real bestseller. The other ones I go back to a lot are Typhoon, which is terrific, and The Secret Agent. There\u2019s just a moment when you\u2019re reading a sentence by Conrad and it\u2019s just... the timing and the music of it. I love him. Also, I think he was secretly gay. There\u2019s something about the way he writes about men. If you read [the short story] The Secret Sharer, it\u2019s about this captain on his first command who smuggles a criminal on board ship and conceals him in his state room, and it\u2019s just the sexiest story ever. \u2022 The Friendly Ones by Philip Hensher is published by 4th Estate (\u00a314.99). To order a copy for \u00a312.74 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"3||Italy's election: who will win and why does it matter?What\u2019s the story and why does it matter? Europe\u2019s fourth largest economy goes to the polls on Sunday 4 March under a new and untested electoral law, for a general election that most observers believe will result in a hung parliament with no outright winner. With a \u20ac2.3tn debt load representing 135% of its GDP and more than 20% of the eurozone\u2019s total, persistent deficits, a still-stagnant economy, decidedly shaky banks and populism irrupting into its politics, Italy is seen as a risk not just to itself but to the EU \u2013 even if some parties\u2019 earlier calls for a euro exit have faded. The Five Star Movement, led by 31-year-old Luigi Di Maio, is polling as the largest single party while a coalition of rightwing parties assembled by the 81-year-old Silvio Berlusconi, including his own Forza Italia and some further right groups, is close to 10 points ahead. But with 30 to 40% of voters still undecided, the final outcome is highly unpredictable \u2013 and an inconclusive one will only add to the instability. Negotiations to form a government are expected to be tricky and could well produce a weak, unstable left-right coalition incapable of passing major legislation or pushing through the structural reforms many feel Italy needs. How did we get here? The former centre-left prime minister Matteo Renzi resigned in late 2016 after staking his job on a referendum on proposed constitutional reforms, which he lost. He was replaced by his party colleague Paolo Gentiloni in a caretaker capacity until new elections could be held. The defeat of Renzi\u2019s proposals, which would have evened out differences between the electoral systems for Italy\u2019s upper and lower houses, left the country without a working electoral system and Gentiloni spent most of 2017 pushing through a new electoral law, which was finally passed in October. Renzi is contesting the election as leader of the centre-left Democratic party. How does the new system work? The law creates a mixed electoral system in which just over a third of parliamentarians in the upper and lower house are elected by first-past-the-post (FPTP) and two-thirds by proportional representation (PR) via party lists. Parties can stand alone, in which case they must clear a 3% threshold to win seats, or in a pre-announced coalition \u2013 which the new system favours \u2013 with a threshold of 10%. Unlike the current system, this one does not give an automatic majority to any party or alliance that wins 40% of the vote. Voters get two slips, one for each house, and can put one cross on each that will count for both the FPTP and PR elements. Candidates can stand in an FPTP ballot in one constituency, but also be on a party PR list in up to five constituencies. A total of 232 lower house seats will be reserved for FPTP winners, 386 for PR candidates, and 12 for overseas constituencies. The equivalent figures in the senate are 102, 207 and six. What are the big issues? Immigration, already a major concern, has shot further up the political agenda since the shooting of six Africans by a far-right extremist in February: Berlusconi promptly called the issue a \u201csocial bomb ready to explode\u201d and promised to deport 600,000 illegal immigrants should his coalition enter government. Otherwise, despite a current uptick in growth, the long and seemingly irreversible decline of Italy\u2019s economy remains an underlying theme, as do persistent high unemployment (a third of all under-25s are out of work) and \u2013 particularly in the south \u2013 corruption. Europe, and especially the euro, may yet return as a hot topic. More than most, however, Italian election campaigns tend to be dominated by chat about who is backing, attacking or or abandoning whom rather than concrete proposals and worked-out policies. Apart from a few wild and, for the most part, unfulfillable promises (see below), this one is no exception. Who is standing and and what do they promise? In an increasingly feverish political atmosphere, the president, Sergio Mattarella, has been forced to urge all parties to keep their electoral promises realistic, practical and responsible. Not many are listening. Centre-right: Forza Italia is led by four-time prime minister Berlusconi, although he is barred from standing because of a tax fraud conviction. It aims to introduce a \u201cparallel currency\u201d for domestic use, keeping the euro for international trade; have a single, flat rate income tax for companies and individuals; abolish housing, inheritance and road tax; double the minimum pension; introduce a minimum income of \u20ac1,000 a month for all and block new immigrant arrivals. Radical right: The League (formerly the Northern League) is led by Matteo Salvini. It would introduce a parallel currency; abolish the EU\u2019s fiscal compact, which imposes stiff budget cuts on high-debt countries; bring in a flat tax for all at 15%; allow earlier retirement; crack down on immigration and repatriate 100,000 illegal immigrants a year; have tougher penalties for crime; improve relations with Russia and reopen Italy\u2019s brothels. Brothers of Italy is led by Giorgia Meloni. A southern equivalent of the Northern League with neofascist roots, its policies are broadly similar. Anti-establishment: The Five Star Movement is led by Di Maio. It proposes a minimum monthly income of \u20ac780; raising the budget deficit; renegotiating the fiscal compact; repealing 400 \u201cuseless\u201d laws including labour and pension reforms to allow earlier retirement and make firing harder; raising taxes on energy companies and improving relations with Russia. Centre-left: The Democratic party is led by Renzi. It is proposes an increase in the minimum wage; negotiating to abolish the fiscal compact and raising the budget deficit to 3% of GDP so as to cut taxes and increase investment. Left: Free and Equal is led by Pietro Grasso, and is a new party uniting smaller groups that left Renzi\u2019s Democratic party. It proposes repealing labour and pension reforms and boosting public spending. Who will win? The Five Star Movement is set to be the single largest party with between 27 and 29% of the vote. Having long ruled out a coalition with any of the traditional parties, it has now softened its stance and could potentially feature in a governing alliance in the event of an inconclusive result. Berlusconi\u2019s Forza Italia is on between 16 and 18%. With the League on 12 to 14%, and Brothers of Italy and possibly Us with Italy adding another few points, his right-wing coalition could conceivably squeak an outright majority. Assuming Forza Italia finishes ahead of the League, this looks the most straightforward outcome, with the current president of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani, tapped to be the new prime minister. But most polls are predicting a hung parliament. This could produce a grand coalition of the centre right and centre left, made up of his Democratic party, on between 22 and 23%, plus More Europe, Together Italy and Popular Civic List. An alliance between the Democratic party and Five Star might also clear the 50% threshold, but Renzi appears to have ruled that out. The most unwelcome outcome of all \u2013 perhaps requiring a so-called \u201cultra grand coalition\u201d involving the left-wing Free and Equal party, currently polling at around 6% \u2013 would be one in which a centre-right, centre-left tie-up did not have enough seats for an absolute majority."
"2||Fiorentina captain Davide Astori dies suddenly aged 31Fiorentina captain Davide Astori has died aged 31, the Italian club have confirmed. Astori was staying in a hotel with his team-mates ahead of their game on Sunday away at Udinese when he passed away. The defender won 14 caps for Italy in a career which started at AC Milan, although he never played a first team game for the club before being sold to Cagliari. \u201cFiorentina are profoundly shaken and forced to announce that their captain Davide Astori has died,\u201d read the statement. \u201cFor this terrible and delicate situation, and above all out of respect for his family, we appeal to the sensitivity of the media.\u201d The match against Udinese has been postponed following the announcement of the player\u2019s death. It was later confirmed that all Serie A games were to be postponed out of respect for Astori. Former Cagliari team-mate Radja Nainggolan wrote on Instagram: \u201cA great player, but even more than that, a great person. How many battles we were in together at Cagliari, then found each other again at Roma I still can\u2019t believe it. My thoughts are with his family and those close to him. RIP.\u201d During his career Astori played spent time on loan at Roma and Fiorentina before joining the latter club two years ago on a permanent basis after six years as a Cagliari player. Astori was a member of the Italy squad for the 2013 Confederations Cup in Brazil, scoring his only international goal in the third-place playoff against Uruguay, which Italy won on penalties. Former Roma manager Rudi Garcia tweeted: \u201cThe news of the untimely death of my former player Davide Astori pains me. A professional and exemplary guy. I am close to the family and his loved ones. Rest in peace Davide.\u201d"
"24||Tom Misch review \u2013\u00a0cream-caramel noodles of funk and hip-hopHe started out making beats in his bedroom, aged 16. Now 22, Tom Misch has evolved into an artist who traverses jazz, hip-hop and low-key funk, working with guest vocalists such as Loyle Carner and the members of De La Soul or, when singing himself, slotting snugly alongside peers such as King Krule and Cosmo Pyke. Opening with the instrumental The Journey, his caramel-smooth blend of nu jazz and glossy beats instantly creates warmth. The band then lock in firmly around Misch\u2019s melodic guitar noodling \u2013 a style that feels like lounge shredding. On I Wish, wobbly funk-strutting bass lines dance around Misch\u2019s creamy guitar tone as his half-spoken vocals glide atop to forge something that is flush-tight and pristine but a little one-note. The violin-heavy Man Like You feels potent and poignant, but an instrumental of Stevie Wonder\u2019s Isn\u2019t She Lovely almost creates the sense of being in a GP\u2019s waiting room, such is its overly soft, inoffensive skip. Misch sounds like an artist who has trawled through the naffer sides of some record collections, then combined what he\u2019s found with a love of J Dilla to forge something that speaks to young people (who make up the bulk of the crowd tonight). However, the naff occasionally remains and you are left with what feels like Mark Knopfler for the ketamine generation. The crowd imbibe it, nonetheless, and move along to the subtle euphoric bounce of We\u2019ve Come So Far and the R&amp;B-soaked Movie. Misch\u2019s musical proficiency and ear for melody is impressive, but over the course of 90 minutes the silk-smooth jazz-inflected grooves can veer from immersive to anaesthetising. At 02 Academy, Leeds, 5 March. Box office: 0113-389 1555. Then touring until 11 March."
"0||UK moves into warmer weather but flooding risk increasesThe cold snap, in which the UK has been hit by hazardous conditions and freezing temperatures, is coming to an end. But high tides and easterly winds could mean flooding for several parts of Britain, particularly in the coastal areas in the south-west and north-east. Some areas will enjoy temperatures as warm as 10C (50F) on Sunday and Monday, although Scotland, parts of Northern Ireland and the north of England will remain cool for a few more days. The Environment Agency has issued 16 flood warnings, which mean flooding is expected and immediate action should be taken, and 35 flood alerts, which mean flooding is possible, as water levels surge. Meanwhile, a yellow weather warning for snow and ice is in place until Monday night across large parts of Scotland. Mark Wilson, a meteorologist for the Met Office, said the snow was beginning to thaw. \u201cThe temperatures are getting warmer but it\u2019s a slow process,\u201d he said. \u201cDespite heavy snow in Wales and the south-west, it is already starting to thaw there, and in some places in the south, the snow has completely gone. \u201cHowever, in some areas and in Scotland in particular, it is staying quite cold and we could see some further snow or sleet particularly in the east.\u201d Wilson said the weather would remain changeable and unsettled for the next few days, with temperatures hovering about 2-3C in Scotland and 6-10C elsewhere. \u201cAll in all, if you don\u2019t like the cold weather it is good news,\u201d he said. \u201cLooking into next week, it\u2019s going to be less cold and much milder. Temperatures will be where they should be for this time of the year.\u201d He added: \u201cThere is not going to be a heatwave anytime soon, though.\u201d Some roads, such as the A66 in Cumbria and County Durham, remained closed as authorities worked to clear snow, but other transport services were starting to get back to normal. Airports were beginning to reopen and train routes resuming, but some operators have warned of reduced or altered timetables. Network Rail said 14 train operators were still affected and urged commuters to check before travelling. As the snow thaws and the cleanup operation continues, people are researching how to minimise disruption in the future. In Scotland, which was badly hit by the extreme weather and where hundreds of vehicles were trapped on the M80 overnight on Wednesday, research is being carried out into \u201cheated concrete\u201d. Geothermic piles, which are used to heat and power large buildings through plumbed underground pipes, are being studied by scientists at the University of Dundee. The study is being supported by Transport Scotland, which said it could help mitigate the impact of snow and ice on road surfaces as well as helping to stabilise roadside slopes and reduce the risk of landslips. A spokeswoman said: \u201cWork is in its early stages but will identify the technology requirements, the economic benefits, and any limitations.\u201d"
"6||Mathieu Bastareaud the cult hero matures to give France stabilityThe foreword to Mathieu Bastareaud\u2019s book T\u00eate Haute (Head Held High), in which the Frenchman lays bare his soul, is written by Jonny Wilkinson. He speaks of the honour and privilege of playing alongside Bastareaud at Toulon but, first, he recalls the centre\u2019s arrival at the club \u2013 \u201cfor an Englishman, he represented a real mystery\u201d. Plus \u00e7a change. For Bastareaud remains one of rugby\u2019s most complicated and perhaps misunderstood individuals. Not long before his book was released, after a bad defeat for Toulon at the end of 2014, he gave a tearful interview in which he said: \u201cI\u2019m a zombie. I think that now I\u2019ve come to the end of the road.\u201d That self-doubt, of which he has often spoken, does not chime with his rampaging on-field style \u2013 \u201ca superhuman force\u201d, writes Wilkinson \u2013 but as the current captain of his club, and vice-captain of his country, there appears a maturity to him, his recent ban for an inexcusable homophobic slur notwithstanding. Dave Attwood is barely a month into his loan spell at Toulon and crossed paths with Bastareaud for only a week before he joined up with the France squad. Still, however, the impact is obvious. \u201cHe speaks with a lot of reverence here, that\u2019s very apparent,\u201d says Attwood. \u201cThe fans are obsessed with him, he\u2019s a cult hero. It\u2019s a team of rock stars, but when he speaks, everyone listens and that says a lot about the man.\u201d On the field, \u201cBasta\u201d is in bloom. He was man of the match for France against Italy and he is now a vastly different player to the 20-year\u2011old force of nature who made his international debut against Wales in 2009. Back then, Dave Ellis was France\u2019s defence coach and remembers the hype that took hold. \u201cHistorically the French backline was always full of very quick, skilful players and the idea was always that the backline would go to around the opposition,\u201d he says. \u201cWith Bastareaud it allowed them to go forwards. It was like discovering a Jonah Lomu figure in France.\u201d Ellis has followed Bastareaud\u2019s progress keenly and highlights how the centre has modified his game over the years. He remains a hugely powerful midfield presence \u2013 and he has always had the offloading ability that was on show against Italy \u2013 but he has honed his skills at the breakdown, where Ellis believes he is most effective. Considering England\u2019s problems in that area against Scotland, Bastareaud will be an influential figure at the Stade de France on Saturday. \u201cOver the last couple of years he has become a key player defensively,\u201d says Ellis. \u201cWhat he\u2019s realised now is that once he gets over the tackled player, that\u2019s it \u2013 an automatic turnover. He has killed a lot of opposition attacks stone dead. You get locked in the jaws and you\u2019re not going to get out of it. It\u2019s probably the strongest part of his game now because he can guarantee you three, four, five turnovers a game and they\u2019re important ones. \u201cI remember doing work with him when he was a very young player when he first came into the French camp and he had those offload skills, he was a keen fan of rugby league and would talk often about it. When we were playing small-sided games in training it was clear he had that ability. Perhaps it has taken playing alongside Ma\u2019a Nonu at Toulon to bring it out.\u201d Size has always mattered when it comes to Bastareaud. It has been a huge part of his game but equally it has been a stick with which to beat him during France\u2019s steady decline as an international force. There is also a sense of unfulfilled potential among some who have spent long periods of time with him. The former Toulon head of athletic performance Steve Walsh says: \u201cI\u2019m being hypercritical but in my mind he could have been better than he has been. He\u2019s still at a very good level but if you stripped him down to look like Sonny Bill Williams he would be world class. \u201cHe is naturally phenomenally strong, without even taking him to the gym. His posterior chain and his back, all the areas you would want somebody to be strong, he is naturally that way and that helps him at the breakdown area. But as an S&amp;C specialist you\u2019re always thinking he could have been better.\u201d Ellis, however, sees a player who has learned to maximise his strengths. \u201cHe is very big man, people say he is overweight and have criticised him,\u201d says Ellis. \u201cBut if you slimmed him down he wouldn\u2019t be the same player. He was never going to be the quickest player in the world but he is one of the most powerful. If Eddie Jones plays George Ford, Owen Farrell and Jonathan Joseph, Bastareaud\u2019s eyes will be lighting up.\u201d Joseph has already encountered Bastareaud twice this season, as Bath and Toulon were drawn in the same Champions Cup pool. Joseph was picked against Scotland ahead of Ben Te\u2019o because of his defensive qualities and is aware of the threat posed on Saturday. \u201cHe is not the usual sort of centre but he is very effective in what he does. He gets a lot of turnovers, he is a big physical carrier so he is something quite different to come up against,\u201d Joseph says. \u201cYou don\u2019t want to get caught in a bad position when you are off balance and he is able to bump you off and you don\u2019t want to be at arm\u2019s length and trying to reach for him. You have to do all the stuff to get in close.\u201d Judging by his lengthy list of exploits \u2013 both good and bad \u2013 it seems remarkable that Bastareaud is still only 29 but optimism abounds in French circles that this time, after flitting in and out of the national side for so long, he is a long-term presence and will bring some much-needed stability. Indeed, considering Bastareaud\u2019s book was published in 2015, Wilkinson\u2019s conclusion is prescient: \u201cI remain convinced the best is yet to come for him despite everything he has already accomplished. This conviction is proof of my deep respect for him.\u201d"
"22||The Immortalists review \u2013 a quartet facing the end of timeIn Chloe Benjamin\u2019s second novel, Klara is a stage magician with a signature act called the Jaws of Life. The trick is that there is no trick: the rope feat simply requires death-defying strength and audacity. In this haunting saga about Klara\u2019s family, The Immortalists is less concerned with gimcrack sleights-of-hand than the acrobatics we undertake in order to cheat mortality. In the summer of 1969 on New York\u2019s Lower East Side, a Romany woman with \u201cpowers\u201d offers each of the Gold children \u2013 Klara and her siblings Simon, Daniel and Varya \u2013 a prediction of the exact day they will die. Only Varya is vouchsafed old age and the fortune teller responds to her scepticism with some advice: \u201cYou wanna know the future? Look in the mirror.\u201d Already teasing determinism and free will apart, Benjamin stands ready to magic this hokey premise into a prismatic philosophical conundrum. Turning to each sibling in the order of their deaths, the novel sweeps through the ensuing half-century towards the present day. After Simon leaps into the late 1970s San Francisco gay scene \u201clike a dog into water\u201d, he seizes upon sex, drugs, ballet and ultimately romantic love with an urgent joy, but the \u201cgay cancer\u201d claims him barely out of his teens. Benjamin poses the same question for each Gold: will they die on the augured date because it is their destiny, or because the prediction draws them into an altered pattern of life choices? The novel garners the doomy sonority of Greek tragedy, even though the various parts are uneven. Like Klara in her early shows, Benjamin is prone to stumbles. Her evocation of how Aids scythed across gay America in the early 1980s feels synthetic compared with Edmund White or Armistead Maupin. Peaking in their youth and beauty, Simon and Klara are the dazzlers here, so the emotional piquancy of the story is frontloaded. After Klara, Daniel is pulled from middle-aged suburban malaise into the hunt for the Romany fraud ring that spawned their fortune teller, ending up in some hackneyed thriller-style jeopardy. The last sibling, primate researcher Varya, is hardest to embrace \u2013 not surprisingly given that her hermetic OCD-fostered avoidance of risk means she has survived rather than truly lived. But The Immortalists remains a boundlessly moving inquisition into mortality, grief and passion. Rotating the plot cogs around when each of the Golds dies seems less important to Benjamin than fleshing out how these divergent siblings choose to live. From Simon\u2019s grande jet\u00e9s to Varya\u2019s quest to unlock genetic longevity, each one struggles to snatch some mastery from the jaws of death. The uncannily gifted illusionist Klara proves the real heartbreaker: torn apart by loss and guilt for encouraging Simon to run away with her to San Francisco, the trick she can never accomplish is bringing him back from the dead. The Immortalists is not just a novel about grief; it conjures characters with such dimension that you mourn them too, a magic rare enough to leave one astonished. \u2022 The Immortalists by Chloe Benjamin is published by Headline (\u00a316.99). To order a copy for \u00a314.44 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"21||A 'political hit job'? Why the alt-right is accusing big tech of censorshipIn January, Charles C \u201cChuck\u201d Johnson filed a suit contesting his ban from Twitter back in May 2015. Johnson, an American rightwing provocateur, has a long history of smearing and hunting political opponents. He runs a scurrilous news site, GotNews, and another that crowdsources bounties for damaging information on his self-selected foes. He was eighty-sixed from Twitter following outrage from other users after a tweet appealing for crowdsourcing to \u201ctake out\u201d Black Lives Matter activist, DeRay McKesson. It was an early example of Twitter appearing to accede to user pressure in scrubbing rightwing accounts. In recent months, social media companies have been more ready to sideline certain views and the users who promote them. Changes to Twitter\u2019s rules in late 2017 saw numerous far right accounts scrubbed. Medium recently banned \u201calt light\u201d users like Mike Cernovich, Jack Posobiec and Laura Loomer. And this week, Alex Jones\u2019s Infowars YouTube channel, with more than 2 million subscribers, has inched closer to a total ban after making allegations that CNN\u2019s post-Parkland town hall was staged. And as of Thursday, rightwing media was lamenting what they were billing as a \u201cpurge\u201d of prominent conservative, alt-right, and \u201cclassical liberal\u201d accounts. The lawyer acting for Johnson in California, Robert Barnes, says it was a clear example of Twitter \u201cmisusing their monopoly power to punish disfavored speech\u201d, and that Johnson\u2019s tweet was not a threat. Barnes points to reporting on internal Twitter memos about Johnson, claiming that it shows his ban was arbitrary and discriminatory. Barnes\u2019s website promotes him as a tribune for the underdog, and he says that this is part of what drew him to the case \u2013 in his view, Johnson is a David to Twitter\u2019s Goliath. But he also says that he is committed to free speech, and he wanted to offer a model for other lawyers to take on social media firms on behalf of banned clients. \u201cThe idea was to create a template that others could copycat,\u201d he says. \u201cFortunately a lot of lawyers have looked at it and decided that it is the best way to proceed. I predict that by the end of the year there will be a dozen such suits against Twitter, Google and Facebook.\u201d Barnes\u2019s suit is not in fact the first of its kind, but he may be right in saying that it won\u2019t be the last. Beginning in late 2017, a number of legal actions have been filed that draw on similar legal principles. They argue, among other things, that companies like Twitter and YouTube are de facto public forums, with a responsibility to guarantee free speech. They are thus challenging the commonsense view that such companies can ban whomever they like. Their lawyers think they can force tech giants to abandon what they describe as arbitrary censorship and liberal bias. The first of these suits was filed last October on behalf of Prager U by a legal team including California\u2019s former Republican governor, Pete Wilson. The defendant is YouTube, and its parent company, Google. Prager U was co-founded by the conservative media star Dennis Prager, and its main product is online videos rehearsing a range of conservative beliefs with engaging, internet age aesthetics. In the words of Prager U CEO, Marissa Streit, \u201cour mission is to reach out to people where they are\u201d. She says that young people, in particular, are a target for Prager U\u2019s introductions to conservative ideas, and YouTube is crucial to that. \u201cWe built a whole business model that was designed for YouTube.\u201d In July 2016, Prager U staff noticed that some of their videos had been restricted, and others demonetized. In the first instance, viewers using YouTube\u2019s \u201crestricted mode\u201d \u2013 described by the company in a video as being \u201clike a parental control system for YouTube\u201d \u2013 would not see those videos. In the second, the videos would not feature advertising, and Prager U would not receive money from them. In filings, Prager U says that restricted videos include some offering conservative points of view on Islam, terrorism, college rape and e-cigarettes. Demonetized videos include many on the same themes, and a number of live chats between Prager and other conservatives like Ben Shapiro, Bret Stephens and Jordan Peterson. Prager U calls this treatment of its videos censorship, and demands remedies for that censorship on the basis that YouTube and its owner Google have a responsibility to uphold free speech. Their argument is that YouTube is not only a large, powerful and near-monopolistic arbiter of political speech, but that it clearly presents itself as a public forum in its own mission statements and publicity materials. The next step is to draw on existing law to argue against the position that as a private company, Google has an unfettered right to host or ban users as it sees fit. The case cites both federal and California laws and rulings. Previous cases include Marsh v Alabama, where the US supreme court held that a Jehovah\u2019s Witness could hand out pamphlets in a privately owned company town, and Fashion Valley Mall v NLRB, where the California supreme court said petitioners could hand out leaflets in a mall urging boycotts of the mall\u2019s stores. They also point to California\u2019s main civil rights legislation, the so-called Unruh Act, which prevents discrimination by businesses. The plaintiffs claim that they are the victims of discrimination as a result of their conservative viewpoint, and make further arguments that YouTube has breached its contracts and injured their business. More recently, similar suits have been filed against Twitter by users farther out on the right. Johnson\u2019s case runs over some of the same points as Prager U\u2019s. Filings say that Twitter is a public forum, in its materials and promotions it says as much, and in this role it has an \u201calmost monopolistic presence\u201d. It also says that Johnson\u2019s ban is a \u201cpolitical hit job\u201d. And in the latest, similar case, filed just last week, white nationalist Jared Taylor and his New Century Foundation commenced action against Twitter for its bans on Taylor\u2019s account and that of American Renaissance, his journal and website. American Renaissance unashamedly campaigns for the establishment of a white ethnostate, and publishes material which asserts connections between race, IQ and crime. They also run the conference where last year, Guardian journalist Gary Younge recorded a heated, widely shared debate with Richard Spencer. Taylor lost his verified status on Twitter last November, and the next month he and American Renaissance was banned in a sweep that excluded a number of far-right accounts. It was part of a series of changes by which Twitter began specifically excluding \u201cviolent extremist groups\u201d. But Taylor argues that he did not break Twitter\u2019s terms of service, never advocated violence, and that he was excluded simply on the basis of beliefs that the service deemed unacceptable. \u201cI have constantly repudiated any suggestion of violence\u201d, he says, and maintains that his plans for a separate white homeland \u201care all about freedom of association\u201d. Certainly, he says, he never advocated violence on Twitter. His legal team includes law professor Adam Candeub from Michigan State University, who says that while he does not share Taylor\u2019s beliefs, he has not advocated violence, and his involvement in the case is guided by his admiration for the thought of John Stuart Mill. \u201cI recognize that some speech is painful,\u201d he says, \u201cbut the benefits outweigh any harm may be caused.\u201d On the question of whether Taylor\u2019s ideas \u2013 which involve the separation of races into homelands \u2013 are inherently hateful, or even imply violence, Candeub, who describes himself as a \u201cpretty observant Jew\u201d, says that Taylor doesn\u2019t advocate violence, and that hate speech is, \u201cas a civil libertarian, a category that I am extremely distrustful of\u201d. Tech companies are, of course, defending their patch. Twitter would not comment on any specific case, but pointed the Guardian to the rules formulated last December on \u201chateful behavior\u201d. The company has been going through the process of contesting Johnson\u2019s suit in California. For its part, YouTube denies any censorship of Prager U, and calls their allegations \u201cmeritless\u201d. A YouTube representative said, \u201cRestricted Mode is an optional feature used by a small subset of users to filter out videos that may include sensitive or mature content. Giving viewers the choice to opt in to a more restricted experience is not censorship. \u201cPrager U\u2019s videos weren\u2019t excluded from Restricted Mode because of politics or ideology,\u201d the representative added. Google\u2019s own filings in response attempt to rebut the claims point by point. They also claim immunity under Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act (CDA), which for 22 years has powered the growth of big tech firms by shielding them from the liabilities borne by, say, newspaper publishers, by absolving them from responsibility for what people might post on their platforms. Just as the CDA protects them from liability for what is published by third parties on their servers, Google says, it also protects them from liability for removing or restricting content. Hearings in the case commence in March. Even if the CDA ultimately works, again, to protect the tech companies, the suit has unfolded at a difficult time for the tech industry. In the wake of alleged Russian interference in the 2016 elections, politicians have been scrutinizing the role of big tech platforms as a conduit for propaganda, disruption, and \u201cfake news\u201d. Some are talking tough about beefing up regulation on Silicon Valley firms. David Golumbia, of Virginia Commonwealth University, is a longtime researcher and critic of Silicon Valley, who has written extensively on the rightwing ideas he says freely circulate in tech circles. He sees the cases as pointing to contradictions which politicians, and others, are now urgently considering. \u201cIn their own self-interest, these companies have exploited a loophole in Section 230 of the CDA, and have created something which is neither fish nor fowl,\u201d he says. They enjoy all the benefits of private companies, he says, \u201cbut they refuse to be regulated, and held responsible for the utterances that come out of their corporate platforms\u201d. In particular, they deny specifically that they are media companies, just platforms. The cases help illustrate big tech\u2019s current dilemma. While politicians and anti-racist campaigners are asking them to act more like publishers, and show some discernment about what they allow to be published, from the right, many are accusing them of censorious liberal bias, and demanding they wind back the few standards they have implemented. These protests have taken many forms, including the launch of alternative, rightwing social media platforms. Despite the confidence of all the plaintiffs in these cases, they may well fail. David Greene, civil liberties coordinator at the Electronic Frontiers Foundation, describes them as \u201ccreative\u201d, and worries that they may go too far in infringing on the speech rights of the tech companies. Others have suggested that Johnson\u2019s suit, in particular, is \u201cDead on Arrival\u201d. But each has generated considerable publicity in rightwing media, where they serve to convince rank-and-file rightists that big tech is against them. New lawsuits are being threatened, and Mike Cernovich says he is planning to sue Medium. \u201cCivil rights cases are hard to win,\u201d he told the Guardian, adding that \u201csomeone has to be a pioneer\u201d. Even if social media companies win these battles, they may be in for a longer legal and ideological war."
"3||Spanish navy captain dies in Antarctica after falling overboardThe commander of a Spanish navy research ship has died in Antarctica after apparently falling overboard. Javier Montojo Salazar, captain of the frigate Hesp\u00e9rides, disappeared on Friday night when the ship was near the Juan Carlos 1 research base on Livingstone Island. Spain\u2019s ministry of defence said a search and rescue operation was launched using \u201call available resources\u201d but the body of the 53-year-old sailor was recovered from the sea six hours later. \u201cThe captain\u2019s remains are on the ship, which is bound for Ushuaia, in Argentina, from where he will be repatriated,\u201d the ministry said in a statement on Saturday. \u201cHis family has been informed and is being supported by a team of navy personnel.\u201d The government said its thoughts were with Montojo\u2019s family. \u201cMy condolences to the family and colleagues of Javier Montojo Salazar, the captain of the oceanographic research vessel Hesp\u00e9rides who died in Antarctica,\u201d said the Spanish prime minister, Mariano Rajoy. \u201cSad news.\u201d The defence minister, Mar\u00eda Dolores de Cospedal, also offered her condolences on Twitter. \u201cVery sad news about the death of Captain Javier Montojo Salazar,\u201d she wrote. \u201cAll my love and support to his family and colleagues. May he rest in peace.\u201d The Hesp\u00e9rides, which was launched in 1990, has a reinforced hull to allow it to operate in Antarctic and Arctic waters. It has been used in numerous research operations, covering more than 300,000 nautical miles and hosting more than 1,000 foreign researchers. Spain has operated the Juan Carlos 1 research base since 1981. The facility, which helps support scientific research projects, is only staffed in the Antarctic summer, from mid-November to the beginning of March. It lies 20 nautical miles from Spain\u2019s Gabriel de Castilla army base on Deception Island. \u2022 This article was amended on 5 March 2018 to correct the spelling of Ushuaia."
"3||Russians forced to attend Putin\u2019s star-studded election rallyVladimir Putin, flanked by cheering supporters, strode on to a stage in the centre of Moscow\u2019s colossal Luzhniki Stadium and urged a crowd of tens of thousands of flag-waving Russians to join him in building a bright and joyful future for the country\u2019s children. \u201cOur ancestors lived here, we live here, and this is where our children and grandchildren will live,\u201d Putin said on Saturday afternoon, at what was his sole campaign rally ahead of this month\u2019s Russian presidential elections. \u201cAnd we will do everything to make them happy!\u201d Standing beside Putin were celebrities and sports stars, including members of Russia\u2019s men\u2019s ice hockey team fresh from their triumph at the Winter Olympics. At Putin\u2019s bidding, they burst into a rendition of Russia\u2019s national anthem. Police said 80,000 people were present, with another 50,000 watching on big screens outside the stadium. It was, on the face of it, a perfect demonstration of popular support for Putin, who is all but certain to secure another six-year term of office when Russians go to the polls on 18 March. Multiple reports before Saturday\u2019s rally indicated that tens of thousands of Russians had been strongarmed into attending the event. University students, state employees, and workers at private companies were among those who came under pressure, according to opposition websites and social media posts. \u201cOrganise yourselves into groups of no less than four, and photograph yourselves when you arrive at the stadium,\u201d read an email, seen by the Guardian, which was sent to employees of a Moscow-based company. \u201cDon\u2019t forget to pick up your placards on Friday!\u201d An employee at the company said he feared his wages would be cut if he did not comply. Andrei Kondrashov, Putin\u2019s campaign spokesman, denied anyone had been forced to attend the rally. However, as Saturday\u2019s event got under way, long before Putin had made his entrance, thousands of people streamed towards the nearest metro station. \u201cLet\u2019s get out of here,\u201d said one middle-aged man named Pavel, after posing for a group photo with work colleagues. \u201cI support Putin,\u201d he said. \u201cBut I\u2019m not spending all day here.\u201d Others were paid to attend. \u201cMen and women. 20-55 years old. March 3rd, rally/concert \u2018For a Strong Russia\u2019 in support of Vladimir Putin. Payment 500 roubles [\u00a36],\u201d read an announcement posted on Tuesday on a popular \u201crent-a-crowd\u201d website. Those who answered the advertisement were met near the stadium by a man who identified himself as Rodion. \u201cWe\u2019ll all go to the stadium together, then meet back here and you\u2019ll get your money,\u201d he said, before handing out Russian Ecological party flags and scarves. No one present appeared to have any connection to the party. The move was an apparent bid to create the impression of broad support for Putin across Russia\u2019s political spectrum. \u201cWhat difference does it make if I pretend to be an Ecological party member? I mean, I don\u2019t support Putin, either,\u201d said one young man, who refused to give his name. A spokesperson for the Russian Ecological party was not immediately available for comment. There was no lack of genuine Putin supporters, however. Activists from the National Liberation Movement, an ultra-nationalist group, were highly visible both around the stadium and on the snow-caked streets outside. \u201cPutin is an outstanding president who is trying to improve our lives,\u201d said Irina Vasilyeva, an older woman, as she held up a portrait of the Russian leader. \u201cWe all have to give him all our support.\u201d Police were quick to detain the handful of opposition protesters. Yelena Zakharova, an anti-Kremlin activist, was seized outside the stadium after she unfurled a sign condemning Russia\u2019s military campaigns in Syria and Ukraine. She was later released without charge. Inside the stadium, which will host this summer\u2019s football World Cup final, speakers warmed up the crowd, with some continuing the bellicose tone of Putin\u2019s recent state of the union address, at which he boasted of Russia\u2019s new \u201cinvincible\u201d nuclear weapons. \u201cWe are a warring country, make no mistake. We have a commander-in-chief. He collects territories, wins wars, and introduces new weapons. How can a warring country change its commander-in-chief?\u201d boomed Igor Ashmanov, a Russian businessman who is one of Putin\u2019s official representatives during the election campaign. Putin\u2019s speech, when it came, was brief and low-energy, consisting of little more than nebulous promises of future victories. It was in stark contrast to his fiery comments at the same venue in 2012, ahead of that year\u2019s elections, and amid mass opposition protests, when he urged the crowd to help him fight a \u201cbattle for Russia\u201d. Although Putin has never shown any great passion for election campaigning, his apparent indifference has reached new lows this year. He has not only declined to debate with rival candidates, he has also failed to publish even an election programme. Despite this, state-run opinion polls indicate that 69% of Russians will vote for him on 18 March. Pavel Grudinin, the Communist party candidate, is polling in second place, with 7%."
"9||Housing report says migration may need to be cut to preserve quality of lifeOne of Australia\u2019s most respected thinktanks has weighed into the population growth debate, saying the federal government needs to develop an explicit population policy that defines the \u201cappropriate\u201d level of migration, and it may need to reduce the migrant intake to improve wellbeing. The Grattan Institute says it is wading into the debate cautiously and it has deliberately not identified an optimum level of migration. But it says the Turnbull government needs to take seriously the degree to which major cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne, are struggling to cope with high population growth. It says if state governments continue to fail to increase the supply of housing and infrastructure necessary to keep pace with rapid population growth, then the federal government may have to reduce the migrant intake so the quality of life of residents in New South Wales and Victoria \u2013 and other states \u2013 does not get worse. The Grattan Institute\u2019s recommendation can be found in a new research report on housing affordability, Re-imagining the Australian Dream, which was released on Sunday evening. The 177-page report contains 13 policy recommendations the institute says will improve housing affordability in Australia. It comes two weeks after the former prime minister Tony Abbott reignited debate about Australia\u2019s population growth by calling for the permanent migration intake to be slashed by 80,000 places a year, from 190,000 to 110,000. Abbott had seized on comments from the home affairs minister, Peter Dutton, who told 2GB Radio in mid-February that it was a \u201cperfectly legitimate argument\u201d that Australia\u2019s cities were \u201covercrowded\u201d, including \u201cgridlocked traffic in the mornings\u201d, and that the government would review the migration intake if it was in the national interest. Abbott used Dutton\u2019s comments as a springboard to say that, despite concerns about housing affordability, \u201cno one on the frontbench of government or opposition had been prepared to raise the one big contributing factor that is wholly and solely within the federal government\u2019s control\u201d. But Abbott\u2019s senior Coalition colleagues criticised his foray, including past and present immigration ministers, the acting prime minister and the trade minister. Dutton clarified that his comment in mid-February \u201cwasn\u2019t a departure from what I\u2019ve said previously\u201d and that the Turnbull government \u201chas got the settings right\u201d. John Daley from the Grattan Institute told Guardian Australia he was very conscious of the politics surrounding population growth and he did not want to be seen to be calling for the migrant intake to be cut. He said his priority was housing affordability, the causes of high house prices and Australians\u2019 living standards. He said federal and state governments had numerous policy levers available to them to make houses more affordable, including limiting negative gearing, slashing the capital gains discount from 50% to 25%, changing the age pension assets test to include the value of a home above a certain threshold (such as $500,000), extending state land taxes to owner occupied housing, and setting housing targets at a state level and making sure local governments meet them. But he said the Grattan Institute also believed state governments were struggling to deal with rapid population growth in their major cities and the quality of life of residents \u2013 represented by the rapid growth in house prices in recent decades \u2013 was suffering. House prices have more than doubled in real terms over the past 20 years, with the strains most acute in Sydney and Melbourne. Since 2012, house prices have risen 50% in Melbourne and 70% in Sydney. \u201cThe commonwealth government should develop an explicit population policy,\u201d the Grattan Institute report says. \u201c[It should] articulate the appropriate level of migration given evidence of the impact of migration on the wellbeing of the Australian community, accounting for both actual and optimal infrastructure and land use planning policies. \u201c[And] if planning and infrastructure policies do not improve, consider reducing Australia\u2019s current migrant intake. \u201cReducing immigration would reduce demand but it would also reduce economic growth per existing resident [so] first-best policy is probably to continue with Australia\u2019s demand-driven, relatively high-skill migration, and to increase supply of housing accordingly. \u201cBut Australia is currently in a world of third-best policy: rapid migration, and restricted supply of housing, which is imposing big costs on those who have not already bought housing. If states are not going to improve supply [of housing] ... then the commonwealth should consider reducing migration as the lesser evil.\u201d In his book Choosing Openness, Labor\u2019s shadow assistant treasurer, Andrew Leigh, noted that, according to an OECD survey of academic studies, migrants had minimal impact on housing prices. Of the OECD\u2019s 28 studies on immigration and wages, 13 reported no effect, seven a small positive effect, and eight a small negative effect, he said."
"12||The Brexit culture wars are driving me bananasOn 10 May 2016, in the closing days of the Brexit campaign, at an impromptu speech in Cornwall, lying Boris Johnson again invoked the Brexiters\u2019 foundation myth that the EU sought to ban bendy bananas. But voters who backed leaving the EU in order to get back the bendy bananas, which had not been taken off them anyway, must surely now be wondering, privately, if it was all worth it. Last Monday, Jeremy Corbyn reluctantly declared his own \u201cbespoke customs union\u201d Brexit fudge with all the enthusiasm and conviction of a man held at gunpoint saying how well he is being treated. \u201cThe option of a new UK customs union with the EU would need to ensure the UK has a say in future trade deals,\u201d he mumbled. \u201cAlso, I am allowed to coddle an egg on alternate Tuesdays.\u201d Apparently Corbyn\u2019s Own Brexit Fudge \u2122 \u00ae was offered to preserve the soft Irish border with Northern Ireland, as it will be impossible to re-bend a straightened Euro banana should a straight Irish banana need to cross into Northern Ireland, perhaps as part of an Irish child\u2019s snack box, an Irish chimp\u2019s dinner or as an Irish clown\u2019s comedy prop. Some Tory Brexiters have an almost blind faith in the idea that there may be some form of as yet nonexistent technological solution; Bernard Jenkin, interviewed by an increasingly scruffy Dobby the House Elf on Newsnight on Tuesday, said Wilf Lunn, the extravagantly mustachioed novelty bicycle inventor from Vision On and Magpie, was already working on a bespoke Border Banana Detector and Straightener \u2122 \u00ae. Lunn\u2019s Borderbananandetecto-straightorbendomatic \u2122 \u00ae would detect and straighten, or bend, any bananas crossing the border, so they would be the right banana type for the segment of the Irish island they were bound for. Jenkin\u2019s attempt to demonstrate a prototype Borderbananandetecto-straightorbendomatic in the Newsnight studio backfired spectacularly after it lunged at political editor Nicholas Watt\u2019s face and tried to peel it. Honestly! You couldn\u2019t make it up!! It\u2019s an increasingly difficult time to be a comedian!!! (And before I forget. Message to Bernard \u201cJenkin\u201d: Jenkin is a French name. No one is called \u201cJenkin\u201d here. Your British name is Jenkins. Bernard Fucking Jenkins. So start using it.) But Corbyn\u2019s Own Brexit Fudge \u2122 \u00ae is as impossible a proposition for the EU in its own way as Boris Johnson\u2019s pre-referendum fantasy of the magic cake that grows again, no matter how much of it you eat; an idea the massive liar surely gleaned from a visit to one of the cloud lands at the top of the Faraway Tree, before sliding back down the slippery slip with his friends Darius, Marina, Petronella, and the Saucepan Man. Whether you are a kamikaze-hard Brexiter or a diehard traitor Remoaner, the precision-applied works spanner of Corbyn\u2019s Own Brexit Fudge \u2122 \u00ae means hard Brexit is far less likely. Banzai! Boris Johnson\u2019s dream of bendy bananas for ever withers on the banana vine, a cowed people cowering for eternity beneath the blow of the straight banana, a straight banana squished on a human face \u2013 for ever. But the culture war continues. Last Monday, on the Twitter, the Mad Max writer and Milo Yiannopoulos cheerleader Brendan McCarthy called me a \u201cdecaying Morrissey impersonator and leftwing donut-eater\u201d and declared: \u201cIt\u2019s end times for the Oxbridge comedy establishment as their own Roy \u2018Chubby\u2019 Brown lashes out at an indifferent public.\u201d While I never knowingly eat doughnuts, \u201clashing out at an indifferent public\u201d is a reasonable description of the impression I strive to create live, and detractors often inadvertently illuminate exactly the effect I aim for, their harshest criticisms helping me to sculpt the on-stage character of Stewart Lee. But as I stood, on the 194th date of my current 220-date tour, on stage in Dartford last Sunday, in the first half-full theatre of the run, my hyperacoustic ears still ringing from a catastrophic sound operator error at Hereford Courtyard on Thursday, the room somehow just would not quite catch fire. I wondered if Mad Max McCarthy was right. Was it indeed \u201cend times for the Roy \u2018Chubby\u2019 Brown of the Oxbridge comedy establishment\u201d? In April last year, the Daily Telegraph, the Daily Mail, the Daily Express, Breitbart, the Spectator, ShortList and Spiked all ran the same demonstrably false story saying I was experiencing mass walkouts because of doing anti-Brexit jokes. This wasn\u2019t the case, even in archly Eurosceptic Lincoln, although, to be fair, the people there may have struggled to find the exits without hard-working east Europeans to show them the way and carry their cauliflowers around. The only walkout of the tour was a very funny man in Canterbury, who shouted \u201cI\u2019ll wait for the DVD\u201d as he left, but I don\u2019t think his departure, unlike David Cameron\u2019s, was Brexit-related. Last year it was fun doing anti-Brexit material on tour. Brexiters in the room had won the referendum, after all, so as a Remoaner I was in a position of weakness punching up at them, as the comedian is required to be. Laughing Brexiters would come up afterwards and magnanimously get me to sign their books and DVDs \u201cto a Leave-voting c*nt\u201d, an amusing transaction that genuinely renewed my faith in humanity nightly. We could all be friends after all. But on Monday, after Corbyn proposed his hard Brexit-sinking \u201cbespoke customs union\u201d, it seemed like no one was going to get exactly what they wanted out of Brexit now. There probably weren\u2019t any winners, certainly not the Leave voters of Leave-voting Dartford, now condemned, even their figureheads agree, to an even less prosperous future. So on stage in Dartford, I didn\u2019t feel I quite understood how to pitch the Brexit stuff any more. In a situation where no one will win there were no winners to aim at. It was not clear any more which way was up, and I no longer knew which direction to punch upwards in. Stewart Lee\u2019s Content Provider continues to tour until April, when it is abandoned over three nights at the Royal Festival Hall"
"25||On my radar: Audrey Niffenegger\u2019s cultural highlightsAudrey Niffenegger is an American writer and artist born in Michigan in 1963 and now living in Chicago. In 1997, she had an idea for a sci-fi romance graphic novel about involuntary time travel. It became The Time Traveler\u2019s Wife, her bestselling 2003 debut novel (and subsequently a film). Her books since include Her Fearful Symmetry, The Night Bookmobile, and Raven Girl. Bizarre Romance, a collaboration with her husband, Eddie Campbell, is out now (Jonathan Cape). 1. Exhibition Charlotte Salomon. Life? Or Theatre? Charlotte Salomon made her extraordinary graphic memoir, Life? Or Theatre?, to stave off despair during her exile from her native Berlin to her grandparents\u2019 home in France during the Nazi occupation. [In hundreds of paintings and drawings] she recounts the suicides of family members, the disastrous effect of the Nazis on her life, and the philosophical education she receives from her stepmother\u2019s singing teacher. I have seen this several times, most recently at the Royal Academy. It is now at the Jewish Historical Museum in Amsterdam, with extra, revelatory pages that have been in her family\u2019s collection. 2. Documentary Jazz (Ken Burns, 2000) I\u2019ve always liked jazz, especially early New Orleans and Chicago style jazz, but I never felt knowledgeable about it, not in the deep way I know about rock\u2019n\u2019roll. My collaborator and husband, Eddie Campbell, loves it, knows about it and is always playing it at our house, and so it seemed desirable to improve my sense of jazz history. Ken Burns\u2019s documentary TV series did the trick. It\u2019s not light-hearted: racism, drug abuse and poverty have informed this divine music. Watching the series has intensified my respect for jazz musicians. It\u2019s a place to begin to listen. 3. Place House of Illustration, Granary Square, London N1 I have fallen in love with the House of Illustration, near King\u2019s Cross in London. This beautiful new gallery, founded by Quentin Blake in 2014, is dedicated to illustration and the graphic arts. At the moment they have a quirky exhibit of North Korean graphics \u2013 until 13 May. They have a charming bookshop, and they want you to draw. To help, they have loads of fun workshops: Medical Illustration, Creating Graphic Novels, Illustrating the Animal Kingdom. It\u2019s easy to be happy there. 4. Television The Magicians, Syfy I did not own a TV until two years ago and so I never had a clue about television shows \u2013 and I was pretty snobby about that. Now I watch TV and some of it is delightful. Anyway, I am a devoted fan of author Lev Grossman\u2019s beautiful Magicians Trilogy \u2013 he gets at the yearning confusion of late adolescence, the need to transcend our human limitations and the certainty that we will fail at this. But, oh, wait: magic is real. The TV show \u2013 The Magicians, on Syfy \u2013 is fun, occasionally brilliant, and diverges from the books in interesting ways. 5. Library The London Library, St James\u2019s Square, SW1 It is difficult to choose only one library, because all libraries are manifestations of the continuous library that includes every library that is, was or will be. But I\u2019m choosing a library of my aspiration, one I have wandered through but not yet used: the storied, glorious London Library. It was founded by Thomas Carlyle, opened in 1841, possesses more than 1 million books and will lend almost any of them if one becomes a member and pays a yearly fee. I think that very soon I will succumb to its charms. 6. Music Landfall by Laurie Anderson and Kronos Quartet Landfall is the first collaboration between Laurie Anderson and the Kronos Quartet, both longtime favourites of mine, released on Nonesuch Records. It is a mournful and wondering elegy for things lost in Hurricane Sandy and a lush evocation of the events of that storm. Another thing I\u2019m excited about musically is the Royal Opera production of Coraline at the Barbican. It\u2019s a new opera based on Neil Gaiman\u2019s spooky, lovely children\u2019s book, with music by Mark-Anthony Turnage and directed by Aletta Collins, and looks quite otherworldly."
"22||The Book of Chocolate Saints by Jeet Thayil \u2013 reviewIn Oscar Wilde\u2019s The Picture of Dorian Gray there is a moment when Dorian sets eyes upon a volume that is described as \u201cthe strangest book that he had ever read\u2026 the heavy odour of incense seemed to cling about its pages and to trouble the brain\u201d. Although it is not named, the book Wilde refers to is JK Huysmans\u2019s \u00c0 Rebours. Its English title, Against Nature, would serve perfectly as an alternative description of Jeet Thayil\u2019s beguiling second novel, which also seems to be imbued with the heavy odour of incense. Its evocation of numerous worlds, ranging from 50s Soho to modern Delhi, makes for a rich, languorous and seductive saga. Like Thayil\u2019s first novel (the Man Booker-shortlisted Narcopolis), it will appeal to many a discerning reader. Thayil\u2019s protagonist is a dissolute, once brilliant man, Francis Newton Xavier, an octogenarian painter and poet who has lost sight of his Indian roots and become more English than the denizens of Oxford and London with whom he rubbed shoulders, Francis Bacon and Muriel Belcher among them. Comparisons are invited between Xavier and other noted Anglo-Indian authors, such as VS Naipaul and Salman Rushdie, at times mischievously so. Nonetheless, this is no literary roman \u00e0 clef, though Thayil has candidly discussed the book\u2019s autobiographical elements, and the dedication to the Indian poet Dom Moraes suggests that he, too, has been an influence. Instead, it is Xavier\u2019s unconventional odyssey that dominates the narrative, as he, wrecked through years of hard living and harder thought, flees a fearful post-9/11 Manhattan with his lover and occasional muse, the excellently named Goody Lol, to return to India, pursued by his biographer, Dismas Bambai. Whether he is heading there for artistic inspiration or in search of absolution is left tantalisingly unclear; in any case, Thayil skilfully draws parallels between his protagonist\u2019s fading health and declining artistic achievements. As Xavier says, \u201cyour anger curled, your grief dies, your talent fades on the page\u2026 you understand that thought is the enemy, the source of all lesions, tumours and sarcomas; then thought becomes flesh becomes the emblem of your shame\u201d. Readers with a knowledge of the so-called Bombay poets of the 70s and 80s, who appear in fictionalised form here, are likely to appreciate Thayil\u2019s pastiches and allusions the most. He may have described them as \u201cassholes\u201d in an interview, but he lauds them here as \u201coutliers, rebels, hermits, dangerous faces unwelcome in polite society\u201d. They have an authenticity that is lacking in the whitewashed, westernised attitudes towards literature and life that Thayil satirises, whether or not they merit the description \u201cchocolate saints\u201d. This is an ambitious and often thrilling addition to contemporary Indian literature. Just as \u201cthe strangest book\u201d enthralled Dorian Gray, the rich, heady poetry here leaves readers little choice but to surrender. \u2022 The Book of Chocolate Saints by Jeet Thayil is published by Faber (\u00a317.99). To order a copy for \u00a315.29 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"2||VAR is another slap in the face for the long-suffering paying spectatorAs a pundit, Robbie Savage is not generally known for being incisive but he was bang on the money with his condemnation of the latest VAR shambles. No one in the ground had a clue what was going on, was the gist of his Wembley assessment as Tottenham\u2019s Cup tie against Rochdale was repeatedly interrupted. That is the whole problem with VAR, and the reason a groundswell of terrace opinion is forming against its use in other leagues across Europe. While it might masquerade as progress, it is actually just another slap in the face for the paying spectator. Those poor saps who insist on travelling to stadiums and forking out for overpriced tickets do so because they want to be part of the event, believing live football at its best is an unrepeatable experience based around a symbiotic relationship between action on the pitch and reaction in the crowd. It has always been this way. You can watch a game on television and see events unfold just as well, perhaps even better, but you don\u2019t share the emotion with performers or fellow spectators in the same visceral way. Declaring: \u201cI was there,\u201d whether the memories are proud or painful, is always going to beat admitting you saw it in the pub or switched it on in your living room. That VAR might be subtly undermining this essential dynamic is perhaps best illustrated by what happened at Huddersfield v Manchester United in the FA Cup a couple of weeks ago. Several reporters stationed themselves not in the press box, with an open air view of the game, but downstairs in a lounge, with an unrestricted view of a television. That is to say, people who had travelled to cover a game chose to watch it indoors on TV, something they could have done at home. Their reasoning was simple. If VAR was in use it would probably end up being the story, it certainly had been at Liverpool in the previous round, and if VAR was the story you would get a much better idea of what was happening via television than you would from a seat in the stadium. In this instance their hunch paid off \u2013 they were the only people in a crowd of 24,000 who knew that the VAR decision to disallow Juan Mata\u2019s goal had been compromised by shonky technology in the form of wobbly offside lines \u2013 but the inescapable and unpalatable corollary was that 24,000 people had paid good money to be kept in the dark. It is more than a little insulting, when you have braved a winter\u2019s day and bought a seat, that all you get is a referee with his finger in his ear and a group of players standing around looking mystified while the TV audience receives pictures and commentary. If this \u201cimprovement\u201d is not for the benefit of those who attend the game then should it really count as an improvement at all? One prominent Liverpool supporter was so appalled by the dismal spectacle he let it be known that VAR was making such a mess of the game he would have preferred to see a fractionally illegal Manchester United goal stand. These are early, experimental days, of course, and presumably VAR will get slicker, quicker and more reliable over time, though the thing to remember about experiments is that they can be ditched if they produce unsatisfactory results. The question is not whether football wishes to take the cricket and rugby route and have replays instantly available on giant screens, the question is whether football wishes the referee in charge of the game and the spectators who have turned up to watch to be at the mercy of someone following the action remotely. Just because technology makes it possible does not automatically mean it is an advance that must be embraced. It is at least worth considering that referees might do a better job if they could go back to concentrating on play without being pestered by voices in their ear. It ought not to be regarded as Luddite to suggest that control of a live game is best left to people on the pitch, even if they will occasionally make a mistake. Now that goalline technology is up and running, a large proportion of the most contentious decisions are instantly cleared up anyway. All that is really needed after that is a method of establishing whether someone has cheated to score a goal, and in the case of a handball of the type Thierry Henry committed against the Republic of Ireland, where defenders are furiously appealing, the fourth official being allowed a peek at a touchline monitor would suffice. VAR is a solution looking for a problem, which is possibly why it keeps being used wrongly. It might be better simply to accept that football can never be perfect than to adopt something that brings so many imperfections of its own."
"21||Has dopamine got us hooked on tech?In an unprecedented attack of candour, Sean Parker, the 38-year-old founding president of Facebook, recently admitted that the social network was founded not to unite us, but to distract us. \u201cThe thought process was: \u2018How do we consume as much of your time and conscious attention as possible?\u2019\u201d he said at an event in Philadelphia in November. To achieve this goal, Facebook\u2019s architects exploited a \u201cvulnerability in human psychology\u201d, explained Parker, who resigned from the company in 2005. Whenever someone likes or comments on a post or photograph, he said, \u201cwe\u2026 give you a little dopamine hit\u201d. Facebook is an empire of empires, then, built upon a molecule. Dopamine, discovered in 1957, is one of 20 or so major neurotransmitters, a fleet of chemicals that, like bicycle couriers weaving through traffic, carry urgent messages between neurons, nerves and other cells in the body. These neurotransmitters ensure our hearts keep beating, our lungs keep breathing and, in dopamine\u2019s case, that we know to get a glass of water when we feel thirsty, or attempt to procreate so that our genes may survive our death. In the 1950s, dopamine was thought to be largely associated with physical movement after a study showed that Parkinsonism (a group of neurological disorders whose symptoms include tremors, slow movement and stiffness) was caused by dopamine deficiency. In the 1980s, that assumption changed following a series of experiments on rats by Wolfram Schultz, now a professor of neuroscience at Cambridge University, which showed that, inside the midbrain, dopamine relates to the reward we receive for an action. Dopamine, it seemed, was to do with desire, ambition, addiction and sex drive. Schultz and his fellow researchers placed pieces of apple behind a screen and immediately saw a major dopamine response when the rat bit into the food. This dopamine process, which is common in all insects and mammals, is, Schultz tells me, at the basis of learning: it anticipates a reward to an action and, if the reward is met, enables the behaviour to become a habit, or, if there\u2019s a discrepancy, to be adapted. (That dishwasher tablet might look like a delicious sweet, but the first fizzing bite will also be the last.) Whether dopamine produces a pleasurable sensation is unclear, says Schultz. But this has not dented its reputation as the miracle bestower of happiness. Dopamine inspires us to take actions to meet our needs and desires \u2013 anything from turning up the heating to satisfying a craving to spin a roulette wheel \u2013 by anticipating how we will feel after they\u2019re met. Pinterest, the online scrapbook where users upload inspirational pictures, contains endless galleries of dopamine tattoos (the chemical symbol contains two outstretched arms of hydroxide, and a three-segmented tail), while Amazon\u2019s virtual shelves sag under the weight of diet books intended to increase dopamine levels and improve mental health. \u201cWe found a signal in the brain that explains our most profound behaviours, in which every one of us is engaged constantly,\u201d says Shultz. \u201cI can see why the public has become interested.\u201d In this way, unlike its obscure co-workers norepinephrine and asparagine, dopamine has become a celebrity molecule. The British clinical psychologist Vaughan Bell once described dopamine as \u201cthe Kim Kardashian of molecules\u201d. In the tabloid press, dopamine has become the transmitter for hyperbole. \u201cAre cupcakes as addictive as cocaine?\u201d ran one headline in the Sun, citing a study that showed dopamine was released in the orbital frontal cortex \u2013 \u201cthe same section activated when cocaine addicts are shown a bag of the class A drug\u201d \u2013 when participants were shown pictures of their favourite foods. Still, nowhere is dopamine more routinely name-dropped than in Silicon Valley, where it is hailed as the secret sauce that makes an app, game or social platform \u201csticky\u201d \u2013 the investor term for \u201cpotentially profitable\u201d. \u201cEven a year or two before the scene about persuasive tech grew up, dopamine was a molecule that had a certain edge and sexiness to it in the cultural zeitgeist,\u201d explains Ramsay Brown, the 28-year-old cofounder of Dopamine Labs, a controversial California startup that promises to significantly increase the rate at which people use any running, diet or game app. \u201cIt is the sex, drugs and rock\u2019n\u2019roll molecule. While there are many important and fascinating questions that sit at the base of this molecule, when you say \u2018dopamine\u2019, people\u2019s ears prick up in a way they don\u2019t when you say \u2018encephalin\u2019 or \u2018glutamate\u2019. It\u2019s the known fun transmitter.\u201d Fun, perhaps, but as with Kardashian, dopamine\u2019s press is not entirely favourable. In a 2017 article titled \u201cHow evil is tech?\u201d, the New York Times columnist David Brooks wrote: \u201cTech companies understand what causes dopamine surges in the brain and they lace their products with \u2018hijacking techniques\u2019 that lure us in and create \u2018compulsion loops\u2019.\u201d Most social media sites create irregularly timed rewards, Brooks wrote, a technique long employed by the makers of slot machines, based on the work of the American psychologist BF Skinner, who found that the strongest way to reinforce a learned behaviour in rats is to reward it on a random schedule. \u201cWhen a gambler feels favoured by luck, dopamine is released,\u201d says Natasha Sch\u00fcll, a professor at New York University and author of Addiction By Design: Machine Gambling in Las Vegas. This is the secret to Facebook\u2019s era-defining success: we compulsively check the site because we never know when the delicious ting of social affirmation may sound. Randomness is at the heart of Dopamine Labs\u2019 service, a system that can be implemented into any app designed to build habitual behaviour. In a running app, for example, this means only issuing encouragement \u2013 a high-five badge, or a shower of digital confetti \u2013 at random intervals, rather than every time the user completes a run. \u201cWhen you finish a run, the app communicates with our system and asks whether it would be surprising to him if we congratulated him a little more enthusiastically,\u201d explains Brown. Dopamine Labs\u2019 proprietary AI uses machine learning to tailor the schedule of rewards to an individual. \u201cIt might say: actually, right now he\u2019d see it coming, so don\u2019t give it to him now. Or it might say: GO!\u201d While the sell seems preposterously flimsy (with a slot machine, for example, at least the random reward is money, a much more compelling prize than any digital badge), Brown says that the running app company has seen significant positive results. \u201cIf you do this properly, we see an average 30% improvement in the frequency of how often a person goes for a run.\u201d Dopamine Labs, which currently has 10 clients, has seen similar positive results with many other kinds of app. In one dieting service, which encourages people to track the food they eat, the company saw an 11% increase in food-tracking after integrating Dopamine Labs\u2019 system. A microloan service saw a 14% improvement in how frequently people would pay back their loans on time or early. \u201cAn anti-cyberbullying app saw a 167% improvement in how often young people sent encouraging messages to one another by controlling when and how often and when we sent them an animated gif reward,\u201d claims Brown. The capacity for so-called \u201cpersuasive technology\u201d to influence behaviour in this way is only just becoming understood, but the power of the dopamine system to alter habits is already familiar to drug addicts and smokers. Every habit-forming drug, from amphetamines to cocaine, from nicotine to alcohol, affects the dopamine system by dispersing many times more dopamine than usual. The use of these drugs overruns the neural pathways connecting the reward circuit to the prefrontal cortex, which helps people to tame impulses. The more an addict uses a drug, the harder it becomes to stop. \u201cThese unnaturally large rewards are not filtered in the brain \u2013 they go directly into the brain and overstimulate, which can generate addiction,\u201d explains Shultz. \u201cWhen that happens, we lose our willpower. Evolution has not prepared our brains for these drugs, so they become overwhelmed and screwed up. We are abusing a useful and necessary system. We shouldn\u2019t do it, even though we can.\u201d Dopamine\u2019s power to negatively affect a life can be seen vividly in the effects of some Parkinson\u2019s drugs, which, in flooding the brain with dopamine, have been shown to turn close to 10% of patients into gambling addicts. Brown and his colleagues are aware that they\u2019re playing with fire and claim to have developed a robust ethical framework for the kinds of companies and app-makers with which they will work. \u201cWe spend time with them, understand what they\u2019re building and why,\u201d he says. \u201cThe ethics test looks something like: should this work in this app? Should this change human behaviours? Does this app encourage human flourishing? If not, does it at least not make the human condition shittier?\u201d To date, Brown claims that Dopamine Labs has turned down both betting companies and free-to-play video game developers, who wanted to use the company\u2019s services to form habits in their players. Well-intentioned strategies often produce unintended consequences. \u201cI don\u2019t know whether [these apps] can generate addiction,\u201d says Schultz, who, along with two other researchers, was awarded Denmark\u2019s \u20ac1m Brain prize in 2017 for discovering dopamine\u2019s effects. \u201cBut the idea behind behavioural economics, that we can change the behaviour of others not via drugs or hitting them on the head, but by putting them into particular situations, is controversial. We are telling other people what is good for them, which carries risks. Training people via systems to release dopamine for certain actions could even cause situations where people can\u2019t then get away from the system. I\u2019m not saying technology companies are doing bad things. They may be helping. But I would be careful.\u201d For Brown, however, co-opting these systems to produce positive effects is the safest and most logical way in which to evolve the human mind, and use a natural molecule to form intentional, positive habits. \u201cWe can close the gap between aspiration and behaviour and build systems that enrich the human condition and encourage human flourishing,\u201d he says. \u201cOur product is a slot machine that plays you.\u201d What dopamine does Dopamine, as one of the major neurotransmitters \u2013 the bicycle couriers of the brain \u2013 carries many different kinds of message, only some of which are known and understood. As well as its core function in learning, through identifying the extent to which a reward differs from expectations, dopamine is also vital for movement control, and plays a role in memory, attention, mood, cognition and sleep. Recent research has shown that dopamine levels are one of the key differentiators between human beings and other apes; Nenad Sestan and Andr\u00e9 Sousa of the Yale School of Medicine in New Haven, Connecticut discovered that 1.5% of the neurons in the human striatum produce dopamine, three times more than in the ape striatum. \u201cWe\u2019re not yet sure of the extent to which our observations explain differences between the human, chimpanzee and other primate brains,\u201d Sestan told New Scientist in November last year. \u201cBut we hypothesise that these cells could contribute to human-specific aspects of cognition or behaviour.\u201d SP"
"2||Said & Done: \u2018Fifa can always bring a smile\u2019 \u2013 Gianni InfantinoSpeech of the week Gianni Infantino in Tehran \u2013 \u201chappy\u201d with Iran\u2019s progress on sexist attitudes: \u201cThere are now 23,000 women football players in Iran. We have some representatives of them here with us today \u2013 and they look fantastic.\u201d \u2022 Infantino\u2019s other big speech last week \u2013 24 hours after 35 women were arrested at the men-only Tehran derby he attended as guest of honour: an address to Fifa\u2019s Conference for Equality and Inclusion in Zurich. Infantino told delegates it made sense to manage expectations. \u201cWe cannot solve all the problems of the world in Fifa. But we can always bring a smile.\u201d Also on board a) Uefa \u2013 launching a new film to \u201ccapture the hearts and minds of the next generation of female players\u201d, a year after Poland\u2019s Uefa executive Zbigniew Boniek tweeted: \u201cWithout exaggeration, when we talk about football, a woman\u2019s input is useless.\u201d And b) The FA \u2013 committed to narrowing their 23.2% gender pay gap \u2013 blaming it on \u201cour most high-profile coaching jobs being filled by men. We take our role in leading the way in football very seriously [but] the number of men applying for jobs is significantly higher than the number of women.\u201d (Jan 2018: The FA unveil new England women\u2019s manager Phil Neville, who didn\u2019t apply for the job.) And elsewhere Also working on big issues last week: a) A fringe meeting at the 37th Session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, titled \u201cHosting Mega Sport Events: Strengthening the Respect for Human Rights\u201d. Event leader Hassan al-Thawadi, head of Qatar 2022, told delegates: \u201cOne of the key objectives of the 2022 Fifa World Cup is leaving a lasting legacy. And there is no legacy more noble than human rights.\u201d And b) Pep Guardiola, campaigning for imprisoned Catalan politicians because \u201cI am a human being and this is for humanity\u201d, eight years after he campaigned for Qatar 2022 as bid ambassador because \u201cI have grown to love Qatar. I believe it can host a spectacular World Cup \u2013 one that embraces all of the Fifa ideals.\u201d Meanwhile: legal news Keeping busy last week: \u2022 Argentina FA executive and Independiente president Hugo Moyano, denying charges of structuring his club \u201cto facilitate the committing of crimes\u201d and \u201cthe laundering of money\u201d. Moyano: \u201cI have the balls to defend myself.\u201d \u2022 Fran Mbidi, Namibia FA president since 2014, reflecting on his current set-up: \u201cIt is not clean. I\u2019m going to clean it though.\u201d \u2022 And Real Madrid\u2019s Luka Modric, denying committing perjury at the Croatian tax fraud trial of former Dinamo Zagreb director Zdravko Mamic. The trial\u2019s highlight so far: September 2017 \u2013 Mamic walking out of court shouting \u201cdo you want my blood, my liver?\u201d while carrying the crutches he hobbled in on. Mamic, filmed later that night dancing at a TV host\u2019s wedding, denies all charges. Other news: manager of the week 26 Feb: Mansfield\u2019s Steve Evans, playing down links with Peterborough. \u201cYou get speculation as a manager, but I don\u2019t deal in speculation. We\u2019re fighting so hard here with 12 games to go: that\u2019s our only thought process, that\u2019s our only focus.\u201d 28 Feb: Joins Peterborough. \u2022 Evans\u2019s message to his new squad last week: \u201cIf we don\u2019t get up this season then some Steve Evans-type players will be coming here in the summer.\u201d Among his previous best third-person highlights, from 2015 when he took over at Leeds \u2013 Evans on morale: \u201cI think the players saw a corner turned when Steve Evans walked in\u201d; On his work ethic: \u201cWhen Steve Evans asks players to be brave, I want them on the ball\u201d; On his vision: \u201cI\u2019m a realist. Steve Evans doesn\u2019t lie in bed and dream\u201d; And on a fake Steve Evans quote circulating on Twitter: \u201cWhat a scandalous, horrible thing to attribute to Steve Evans.\u201d Worst reference Brazil: Campinense president William Sim\u00f5es, sacking coach Celso \u201cCrazy\u201d Teixeira despite six wins in nine. Sim\u00f5es told the press: \u201cNot even Jesus Christ could put up with him. He\u2019s unhinged, unfit to coach.\u201d Celso: \u201cHe told me which players to pick. I said no.\u201d Best values Argentina: Santos Laguna striker Cris Mart\u00ednez, \u201csorry for the dissent\u201d after reacting to a red card by punching a hole through a door and breaking four fingers. \u201cI regret it. My conduct did not correspond with the values of the institution to which I belong.\u201d Surprise of the week Peru: Referee Gian Pierre Barbagelatta, sending off Ayacucho scorer V\u00edctor Rossel for an \u201cobscene air-humping\u201d goal celebration, then doing his own version of the dance to explain the red card. Local media: \u201cIt caused great surprise\u201d. Lesson of the week Argentina: Top-tier Defensa defender Dylan Gissi, reflecting on being booked for giving team-mate Mariano Bareiro a slap after Bareiro failed to pick up his runner. \u201cIt\u2019s a matter of regret \u2013 and it\u2019s also a life lesson. Not just for me, but for the rest of them, too.\u201d And save of the week Chile: Top-tier Huachipato, reassuring fans via Twitter after their game was held up while a dog chased a rabbit into the penalty area and caught it. \u201cThe rabbit was saved by one of our stewards then received some first aid. The rabbit now recovers in its hole.\u201d"
"4||Antidepressants do work \u2013 but children need someone to talk toNearly a decade ago I found myself perched on the edge of a hard chair in a dark doctor\u2019s office. I was 13 and struggling a lot with self harm, body image, and the simple task of keeping myself alive. Shuffling my feet and wondering how I ended up here, I remember not fully understanding what was happening when I was handed a little green prescription for Fluoxetine \u2013 an antidepressant drug often better known as Prozac. Back then, my frame of reference for mental illness was pretty minimal. All I knew was that I felt numb and I wanted everyone to leave me alone. The thought of something being able to help felt so far away it was almost laughable. Antidepressants had never crossed my mind. Everything I knew about them was framed around the words of American emo bands or soap operas. As the doctor handed me the prescription, I remember it was talked about as the most natural thing in the world. \u201cWe\u2019ll give you a course of pills and go from there.\u201d What? Go where? Am I really hopeless enough that only drugs can fix this? In 2008, I was just one of 40 million people worldwide taking a green-and-yellow pill each day. I was sceptical. How could anything make me feel better? But, 10 years down the line, I still pick up my prescription every month and cannot imagine my life without Prozac. Last month, I read about how a major study had confirmed that antidepressants do work. The headlines \u2013 \u201cThe drugs do work\u201d and so on \u2013 suggested that we were right all along to medicate depression as soon as it presents itself. This message should be welcomed and will hopefully battle the stigma surrounding antidepressants. But, for children in particular, there is more to it. In June last year, it was reported that almost 65,000 young people in England, including children as young as six, were taking antidepressants . Guidelines from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) state that they should only be given to teenagers and children with moderate or severe depression, when psychotherapy has failed. It also states that medication should always be taken in concert with other support, such as talking therapies. Here is where my concern lies. When I was handed my first prescription, I was told that was the starting point, and that I could not possibly start any therapy without the medication. Before then, I had not seen a fully trained psychotherapist \u2013 nor did I even have a full diagnosis from the specialist team sitting in front of me. While I cannot predict how things would be if they had been handled differently \u2013 by offering children medication, before giving them the chance to talk to someone, we are telling them we would rather write them a prescription than listen to what they have to say. In moments of intense pain and suffering, children are often left not understanding what is happening to them and, instead of offering them a caring hand to hold, we are giving them a medicinal cold shoulder. Yes, the pills do work. I\u2019m not afraid to say that they have changed my life, and I honestly believe that without them, things would be very different for me now. But there are a whole host of other things being used to tackle depression that cannot be ignored. The entirety of my teenage years were defined by talking therapies, medication, hospital appointments and care plans. It was never the case that I was going to take the magic pills and things would get better for me, and to suggest that the drugs were responsible for saving my life would be to dismiss a lot of hard work by a lot of wonderful people. Countless therapy sessions and a close, trusting relationship with a dedicated nurse helped me get to the bottom of my illnesses and understand how to manage them. My family rallied around and learnt everything they could to be supportive and understanding. This came along with hospital care and, above all, my own hard work to get through it. Medication is an excellent tool for treating depression \u2013 but it is just that \u2013 a tool in part of a much more complex selection of resources. I have sympathy with a system which is struggling among government cuts and lack of strategy, and can understand that sometimes offering medication is the first thing we can do in a child and adolescent mental health service with a wait of up to 18 months for initial support. As a society, we need to work harder to support \u2013 not just a quick-fix pill. I am grateful for the support and love I received to get me to where I am today, and medication has been a valuable part of that. But I wonder, if people had not been so quick to prescribe the pills, perhaps I would be able to imagine my life without them today."
"22||Debussy: A Painter in Sound review \u2013 a lasting impressionThe young Claude Debussy wrote a dainty music redolent of pink lampshades and rustling frou-frous. His piano sketches from the late 1880s caress the ear in an undeniably gorgeous way, but leave an impression of dilettante sensation. Debussy only found his voice with his 1905 sea symphony La Mer and the hauntingly strange orchestral fantasia Pr\u00e9lude \u00e0 l\u2019Apr\u00e8s-Midi d\u2019un Faune. These are among the most extraordinary works of music of our time. The hushed intensity of the Debussy sound left its mark on Miles Davis, for one, who saw in the French composer a pre-jazz master of the sonic impressionist sketch. This excellent new biography of Debussy, subtitled A Painter in Sound, looks at a composer in thrall to Javanese gamelan music and other eastern sonorities (among them the Japanese koto used by David Bowie to ambient effect on his Heroes album). Debussy\u2019s thirst for \u201cun-French\u201d music put him at loggerheads with the Paris old guard, who found him fandangled and foreign as a pagoda, says Stephen Walsh. Debussy\u2019s ability to create new possibilities in sound is, of course, what makes him so modern. Walsh is a superb guide to this music, but he is rather less interested in the details of Debussy\u2019s life. (His groundbreaking biography of Stravinsky likewise concentrated more on the music.) The composer\u2019s humble birth in a suburb of Paris in 1862 is quickly reviewed by Walsh. Money was tight in the Debussy family flat behind Saint-Lazare station, where Claude\u2019s mother was a seamstress and his father a shopkeeper. The teenage Claude cut a \u201cmildly grotesque\u201d figure, with his high-domed forehead and crinkly black hair. At the Paris Conservatoire where he studied in the late 1870s, he discovered the polyphonic motets of Palestrina and other Renaissance composers; traces of their multi\u2011voiced sacred works can be heard in his 1911 stage work, Le Martyre de Saint S\u00e9bastien, with its sheets of harp and celesta sounds. Having left the \u201cstraitlaced\u201d Conservatoire, Debussy befriended the French symbolist poet St\u00e9phane Mallarm\u00e9, a lexical innovator whose writing glowed with a melancholy sense of emptiness (\u201cThe flesh is sad and I\u2019ve read all the books\u201d). As Walsh reminds us, Mallarm\u00e9 was a tireless promoter of Edgar Allan Poe, in whom he found a European symbolist sensibility. For years Debussy worked on an opera based on Poe\u2019s chain-rattling story The Fall of the House of Usher, but it was never completed. By the time Debussy\u2019s first string quartet was premiered in Paris in 1893, he was on his way to recognition. Though indebted to the chamber music of Marcel Proust\u2019s beloved C\u00e9sar Franck, there was a stillness in the slow movement that suggested new horizons. From here it was not such a leap to La Mer, Debussy\u2019s best-loved work. The composer\u2019s translation of the sea into orchestra was a signpost in the development of contemporary classical music. The symphony has little metre or pulse but, an impressionist marvel, it trembles like a mass of shimmering pointillist particles. Debussy had been influenced, says Walsh, by the gamelan orchestras on display at the Paris World Fair of 1889. In Bali\u2019s percussive cling-clang of gongs and metallophones, Debussy detected non-western harmonic developments that later served him well for the abstract pianistic moods of Pr\u00e9ludes, composed in the early 1900s and built on a gamelan-like idea of \u201cmovement through stasis\u201d. After a lifetime of heavy smoking and drinking, Debussy died in 1918, at the age of 55, of rectal cancer. In terms of modern composition he is a forerunner of the atmospheric sound clusters of Gy\u00f6rgy Ligeti and Terry Riley\u2019s abidingly popular In C (itself a gamelan-influenced interweave of shades and inflections). For all his dreamy fin de si\u00e8cle languor, Claude Debussy is no curio from a superseded world. Walsh\u2019s fascinating study will help to win him new admirers. \u2022 Debussy: A Painter in Sound is published by Faber &amp; Faber (\u00a320). To order a copy for \u00a317 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"20||Joan Jonas: \u2018You don\u2019t know what you\u2019re doing sometimes. You just begin\u2019At the beginning of the 21st century, New York\u2019s SoHo has become just another shopping mall, Guess cosying up to Banana Republic, Dean &amp; DeLuca arm in arm with Bloomingdale\u2019s. Walking its streets, it\u2019s impossible to believe that any artists live or work here now, let alone the kind who knew it back in the day, when it was all rusty factories and wild \u201chappenings\u201d. And yet they do. Behind a door in Mercer Street is an elevator that takes you up to the loft of the performance artist Joan Jonas, a space where she has lived and worked since the early 70s. To open this door, and to ride this elevator, is discombobulating: it\u2019s time travel, of a kind. Surrounded by the dozens of objects she has accumulated over the decades \u2013 a realm of authenticity that includes pebbles, baskets, bowls, dolls and masks \u2013 you feel suddenly ashamed of the long minutes you just spent staring at the windows of the Prada store that stands on the site of the old SoHo Guggenheim. It\u2019s a sensation that isn\u2019t exactly eased by Jonas herself, a coiled spring of a person with tousled grey hair and a veritable shadow of a poodle called Ozu, which barks proprietorially every time her hand loosens on its lead. She dislikes doing interviews, and her somewhat minimalist answers, at least at first, give me the strong sense that my questions are as dumb as any she has ever been asked. Add to this the essential problem that, like most of those who come to talk to her, I have seen her performances only in photographs (as she and I will discuss later, there is a sense in which her work can be said not really to exist beyond the moment of its production), and the potential for misunderstanding would seem to be bigger even than this vast room. Oh, well. At least I know the way out. Later this month, a major survey of Jonas\u2019s work \u2013 the largest ever presented in the UK \u2013 will open at Tate Modern. It will include an immersive gallery exhibition, in which some of her installations and items from her personal collections will be displayed, and a 10-day live performance programme in the Tanks in which Jonas, now in her early 80s, will appear on two occasions (she will perform Mirage, a piece from 1976 that makes use of chalk and a blackboard; other works, including iterations of the famous Mirror Pieces from 1968-71, will be performed by younger collaborators whom she will, in effect, direct). The idea is that this show will reveal Jonas, whose name is not well known in Britain, as a pioneering figure whose way with a video camera \u2013 she was the first artist to incorporate live video feeds into her work \u2013 seems newly relevant in this, the era of the selfie and the smartphone. Is she excited about the show? \u201cIt\u2019s hard to be excited,\u201d she says, giving me a look. \u201cI have so much to do.\u201d In any case, the years have done little to change the anxiety involved in performing. \u201cConfidence is totally important,\u201d she says. \u201cYou have to be confident to get up in front of an audience, or to be able to give the illusion of it. I still get a little nervous. If I do a bad performance, I feel awful for weeks.\u201d What about if she does a good one? \u201cIf it works out\u2026 I can\u2019t say it\u2019s satisfying, but it is fulfilling.\u201d Is she aware that in photographs of her performances, she gives the impression of immense power, that she seems almost to be the size of a giant? (When the lift doors opened, I could not believe my eyes; she is tiny.) At last, the ghost of a smile. \u201cOther people have said the same thing. But that\u2019s what happens when you\u2019re photographed. You\u2019re not you. I was just in Jamaica, and I met Grace Jones, and she is not tall at all. She\u2019s only a little bigger than me.\u201d How did she come to meet Jones? She flaps her hand dismissively. \u201cOh, we don\u2019t have to go into that.\u201d The last few years have, she agrees, been good ones for her: the Tate retrospective follows the 2015 Venice Biennale, at which she represented the US (her show was described by the New York Times as a \u201ctriumph\u201d). \u201cI didn\u2019t expect to be in this position,\u201d she says. \u201cI\u2019ve always been a little on the edge of the art world, albeit purposely in the beginning, when I was using different spaces, trying to avoid the white cube of the gallery. And it is wonderful to be recognised.\u201d But it is also important to keep working \u2013 \u201cit\u2019s what keeps us alive\u201d \u2013 and for this reason she is wary of the tendency to describe her as the godmother of performance art. \u201cIf I thought of myself like that, I wouldn\u2019t be able to function. I\u2019m pleased with the effect I\u2019ve had on other artists, and on the students I\u2019ve taught. But I can\u2019t put myself in some exalted category. It\u2019s important not to slip into repetition.\u201d Is there really much danger of that? It\u2019s hard to imagine there is. As the painter Susan Rothenberg once put it, hers is an \u201cexcruciatingly odd\u201d kind of a mind. You never quite know what she will do next. Jonas was born in Manhattan in 1936, and grew up there and on Long Island. Neither of her parents, who separated when she was six, worked for a living \u2013 her father, who lived on a boat, was a failed writer \u2013 and she won\u2019t tell me how they funded themselves (perhaps some private money was involved). But they and her wider family had artistic leanings that seem to have rubbed off on their daughter, whom they would also enrol in a progressive school on the Upper East Side where the days began with the children being asked what they wanted to do. Her mother, a keen collector of things, took her to galleries and the opera, and her father introduced her to poetry; a great uncle made dioramas, and an aunt was a painter. Her step-parents, too, were influential. She got her love of magic shows from her stepfather, a jazzman who was also a talented amateur magician; her stepmother had a sister who knew, among other artists, Gorky and de Kooning. (Jonas was never introduced to either of them, but their spirit was somehow in the air.) \u201cI knew I wanted to be an artist from the age of five or six,\u201d she says. \u201cAnd my father encouraged it, perhaps because he had been disappointed himself artistically. But it wasn\u2019t until I was in my 20s that I knew I could be one. It took me a long time to get there, as a woman.\u201d Having studied sculpture at the School of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Jonas returned to New York to attend Columbia as a postgraduate, this time with a husband in tow; it was through Gerry Jonas, to whom she was married for five years (she has never remarried), that she came to hear about the various excitements that were then going on downtown (Gerry\u2019s Yale friend Henry Geldzahler, the Metropolitan Museum of Art\u2019s first curator of contemporary art, would call the writer Calvin Trillin to let him know what was happening, and Trillin would in turn call the Jonases) . And as her interest in dance, music and the strange happenings then being staged by artists such as Claes Oldenburg and Robert Whitman grew, so did her dissatisfaction with her own Giacometti-like sculptures. \u201cI was lucky to see those things, and they affected me deeply, so I switched to performance,\u201d she says, as if it was the simplest thing in the world. And she destroyed all her sculptures? \u201cYes, and I\u2019m not sorry I did.\u201d Did this change feel daring? \u201cI didn\u2019t feel so, no. I was driven by my interests. I\u2019d always liked poetry and films; I saw what I was about to do as related to their structure.\u201d She didn\u2019t worry, particularly, about how she would make a living. At first, her husband supported her; later, she found ways of supporting herself, working in a gallery and as a proofreader for the New York Review of Books. Sometimes there were grants, too. \u201cI survived all those years. I just had to be careful to live within my means.\u201d She didn\u2019t use the word \u201cperformance\u201d at first: \u201cI called them pieces.\u201d Her first fully realised piece was Oad Lau, in 1968, in which she and another performer, dressed in costumes to which small mirrors had been glued, walked stiffly back and forth across a New York gymnasium in parallel lines (she was all the while reciting passages from Jorge Luis Borges\u2019s Labyrinths). Meanwhile, five other performers (friends and fellow artists) built a string structure on which sheets of plastic were laid; it blew in the breeze generated by some large electric fans. This performance, which ended with the structure being pulled down, involved many of what would become her motifs: choreography; a sense of ritual; an engagement with nature (the plastic sheets suggested a watering place or pond); above all, an interest in mirrors. It was intensely precise, but it was also highly contingent, and its meaning, as opposed to its effects, remained largely obscure. (I\u2019ve yet to find someone who can talk or write about Jonas\u2019s early work in a way that makes sense of it; those who were there at the time are not, alas, the ones compiling the catalogues or curating the shows, nor does it seem to have occurred to them to find and interview those who were.) After this, she was on her way. In the course of the next few years, she made some of the work for which she is probably still best known. The Mirror Pieces [1968-71] involved groups of women moving in tightly choreographed patterns as they carried full-length mirrors, the first batch of which she had picked up at a five and dime store; or, in the case of Mirror Check, a naked Jonas inspecting every part of her body with a small hand mirror. In Organic Honey\u2019s Visual Telepathy [1972], she performed as her masked erotic double, Organic Honey, wearing an extraordinary feathered head-dress as she engaged in repetitive activities that riffed on female narcissism (by this point, she had been to Japan, where she had bought her first video camera; the audience, then, was able to watch both the performance and a live feed of it, a juxtaposition she loved). \u201cI was very involved with changing my appearance, and observing myself, and the persona I was creating,\u201d she says. \u201cDancers look at mirrors, and I had taken workshops with dancers. One thing that interested me, it still does, is that [in these pieces] the audience is reflected in the mirrors; what gave it all an edge was that they felt uneasy. You don\u2019t want other people to see you looking. It\u2019s the taboo of the mirror. Visually, also, the mirror breaks up a space; your perception of it changes.\u201d These pieces have things to say about the perception of women\u2019s bodies, and about the tension between what is public and what is private (well, this is my interpretation of them). Perhaps it\u2019s no surprise, then, that at the time she made them, Jonas was a member of a women\u2019s group. \u201cIt had a big effect on my life,\u201d she says. \u201cThe whole [women\u2019s liberation] movement did. Our group was small. We had a lot of pent-up anger about the whole situation. [We went in for] self-examination, and for revealing intimate aspects of one\u2019s sensibilities. Organic Honey\u2019s Visual Telepathy was all about asking the question: what is the feminine? I was concerned with the roles women play.\u201d Did she feel vulnerable making this work, particularly Mirror Check? \u201cIt seemed to other people I had made myself vulnerable, but it really wasn\u2019t the case. It wasn\u2019t autobiographical. Also, I was protected by the distance from the audience, and in my work, no one breaks the wall \u2013 or they haven\u2019t so far. I don\u2019t know any performance artists who have been heckled.\u201d In the beginning, her audiences were small, and they were composed of people she knew: other artists, curators, musicians. Now, they\u2019re bigger, more diverse and more receptive (there seems to be a real hunger for performance art at the moment \u2013 witness the popularity of Marina Abramovi\u0107\u2019s show 512 Hours at the Serpentine Gallery in 2014). What\u2019s strange, though, is that Jonas doesn\u2019t feel the audience changes the work from performance to performance. There is a sense in which, in spite of what she has just said about the crowd seeing itself in the mirror, she doesn\u2019t care about it at all. In this way, if no other, her practice is very different from that of a theatre director, or an actor. As the years went by, the work grew richer, her frame of references wider. She moved away from the site-specific and into gallery spaces, which is how she came to start making installations, as a kind of pendant to the performance itself. The Juniper Tree (1976), which told the story of an evil stepmother using, among other things, wooden balls and a ladder, was inspired by the Grimm brothers\u2019 Fairy Tales and Bruno Bettelheim\u2019s book, The Uses of Enchantment, which applied Freudian psychology to them. Lines in the Sand (2002) was inspired by HD\u2019s [Hilda Doolittle] poem Helen in Egypt, and deployed some of the marvellous photographs Jonas\u2019s grandmother had taken when she visited the country in 1900. Reanimation (2010-13) has its source in the novel Under the Glacier by the Icelandic writer Halld\u00f3r Laxness. \u201cThere is a continuity in the work,\u201d she says. \u201cAnd sometimes one thing segues into the next. But I always try to choose a new subject or form. Sometimes, you don\u2019t know what you\u2019re doing. You just begin. One piece, Funnel [from 1974], began with a cone. It evolved entirely from that. The set was cone-shaped, and I used cones as props.\u201d How long does the process take? \u201cAbout a year, usually.\u201d How does she know when something is finished? \u201cThere is no one finished product.\u201d This takes us to some of the tricky issues around performance art, whose intangibility presents something of a problem in an art world that fetishises objects. I wonder: does a reconstruction (I would call it a reproduction if that word didn\u2019t seem so loaded in context) of a piece have the same value as it did originally, or is something lost in translation? And what about if it is performed by a collaborator, rather than by Jonas herself? Is it still the same? Above all, how firmly must she stick to what we might call her original rubric? (I\u2019ve seen pictures of the typescripts of the directions involved in her early performances; they read a bit like something out of Pinter.) She thinks for a minute. \u201cThe Mirror Piece, which I will do at Tate: I have reconstructed it before, at the Guggenheim in New York. I took all my old photographs and all my old directions, and I based it on those. I find it very interesting seeing it now. I enjoy it. But it is a slightly new version, yes. These things can never be the same as they were, never, never.\u201d The Tate will also stage Song Delay, an outdoor piece from 1973 (it will be performed by collaborators; Jonas will not participate). \u201cWe will do it by the Thames at low tide, a site quite different from where it was originally performed. It\u2019s a new work, based on old work, with the same props and movements.\u201d It takes me a moment to notice that she hasn\u2019t really answered my questions. But perhaps, for her, they are unanswerable \u2013 matters to be left to the critics and the theorists. The 80s were difficult, she admits. Art was suddenly all about money, and painting, and her work \u201ckind of disappeared\u2026 it wasn\u2019t quite the same for a while.\u201d But the 90s were good, she says \u2013 as they were for many female artists of her generation. She no longer feels, as she used to, that the art world is overly masculine. \u201cWhen I went to art school, there were no women teachers. Now there are many. It\u2019s still harder for women: men get more shows. But there are some very strong women out there now: Barbara Kruger [the American conceptual artist and collagist], Louise Lawler [the photographer, also American].\u201d What does she make of #MeToo? (At the time of our interview, allegations of harassment have been made against the dealer and collector Anthony d\u2019Offay, and the publisher of Artforum, Knight Landesman.) \u201cIt\u2019s like a revolution, and it\u2019s very important, a necessary explosion. The only thing I criticise is the lack of due process. I don\u2019t think it is fair to be accused and taken down without one.\u201d I wonder what she\u2019s like to work with. Is she collaborative or tyrannical? \u201cIn between,\u201d she says, barely missing a beat. \u201cI am forceful. But with something like the Tate, I don\u2019t have time to do everything, so I will have to rely on the judgments of others.\u201d Will she mind what the critics say? \u201cYou can\u2019t help caring. Art is communication.\u201d Her escape hatch is Nova Scotia, where she has a house and a studio, and spends her summers. \u201cIt\u2019s important. I like to be in the country, and I do a lot of work up there\u2026 the freedom.\u201d Yes, SoHo has changed beyond all recognition. But she won\u2019t move, not now: that would be too big an undertaking. \u201cI still like the buildings early in the morning and late at night, and there are still places like this [she gestures at the windows, today\u2019s thin winter light streaming through them and on to the little white models of the gallery spaces at Tate Modern]. A lot of us are still here.\u201d Is it lonely, though? Her assistant has just arrived, but a practice like hers involves a certain amount of necessary seclusion. \u201cSometimes,\u201d she says, \u201cbut not often. I have many friends, I collaborate.\u201d She looks at her hands, her long fingers. \u201cI don\u2019t worry about whether my work is right any more, but I do still constantly have to think: is this working? Is this any good?\u201d Joan Jonas is at Tate Modern from 14 Mar-5 Aug and is performing as part of BMW Tate Live from 16-25 March. Tickets available from tate.org.uk"
"24||Morrissey review \u2013 this once charming manIt doesn\u2019t take long, on this freezing night in Birmingham, before Morrissey makes one of his pronouncements. Somewhere between the dying notes of the opening Elvis Presley cover, You\u2019ll Be Gone \u2013 licked by exotic flamenco heat \u2013 and the opening anglo jangle of Suedehead, from Morrissey\u2019s solo debut, Viva Hate, released 30 years ago this month, the singer flicks the mic lead like a whip and declares: \u201cBring back free speech!\u201d Ah, free speech: you do feel a certain nostalgia for the idea, as you might for the younger, 80s Morrissey. Formerly uncontroversial, the liberty to air ideas and openly criticise authority is enshrined in the first amendment to the constitution of Morrissey\u2019s adopted US. Over the past few years, however, the goalposts of political engagement have shifted drastically. Now the most ardent advocates of free speech tend to be figures who have something ugly to say. The quip, halfway through this tour for his latest album, Low in High School, suggests Morrissey is still smarting from his run-in with the German newspaper Der Spiegel last year. Briefly, the paper reported Morrissey\u2019s view that Kevin Spacey \u2013 accused of serious sexual misconduct \u2013 had been \u201cunnecessarily attacked\u201d, only for Morrissey to claim he was misquoted. In response, the newspaper put its audio of the disputed interview online and Morrissey vowed never to speak to print media again. For a lapsed believer such as myself, Morrissey utterances like these tend to induce full-body cringes, the kind that have punctuated the veteran fan\u2019s experience over the years. A sense of chagrin percolates anew: I am a grownup. I realise many of my idols probably have feet of clay. And yet the disappointment gnaws. The 80s Morrissey was the standard-bearer for everything brave, beautiful and idiosyncratic. His was not the snarl of punk, nor the machine-sulk of post-punk, but a call to affective and moral arms that differed in substance and style from everything that preceded and surrounded it. Here was despair, arrogance, lust, grandeur, self-pity, vegetarianism and waspishness, all delivered with the florid commitment of a true original. In recent days, it was announced that the Smiths\u2019 formative years will be the subject of a soon-to-be-published graphic biography by Greek-Australian artist Con Chrisoulis, reiterating the huge sway Morrissey\u2019s artistic output still has on generations of music fans. Morrissey gave British pop new hues on the emotional spectrum. But since 1992, when he supported Madness in north London\u2019s Finsbury Park wrapped in a union jack, the singer\u2019s pronouncements have tended towards the controversial. In 2010, Morrissey called Chinese people \u201ca subspecies\u201d because of their cruelty to animals. In 2013, he stated that he liked Nigel Farage \u201ca great deal\u201d. Last year, he seemed to criticise the Ukip leadership election election process on 6 Music, wondering whether it had been rigged to prevent an anti-Islamic candidate, Anne Marie Waters, winning. Last week, at a gig in Glasgow, he threw shade on Scottish first minister Nicola Sturgeon (\u201cThose hands will be in anybody\u2019s pocket\u201d). The word \u201cbell-end\u201d tends to appear in the comments section under reports of his antics on this organisation\u2019s website. In song, he appears to believe that voting in democratic elections endorses police brutality. \u201cEvery time you vote you support the process,\u201d runs the lyrics to World Peace Is None of Your Business \u2013 a theme updated by Low in High School\u2019s Who Will Protect Us from the Police?. It begins tonight with penetrating electronics and guitars that sound like a malevolent didgeridoo, and ends with a flourish, but grinds on inelegantly in between. Police brutality is terrible. You just want the song to be better than this. Similarly, the rest of Morrissey\u2019s set veers from moments of musical serendipity and great showmanship to churning mid-tempo bluster. A tremendous pre-gig montage of film clips and vintage performances serves as tonight\u2019s support act, and finds room for performances by James Brown and speeches by James Baldwin. A clip of Dionne Warwick singing the magnificent Don\u2019t Make Me Over echoes around the comfortably full-enough arena. Reading the runes, it seems Morrissey would like to signal that he feels some kinship with African Americans. Morrissey retains an intriguingly complex relationship with Hispanic culture, too, having found a home in LA and an unexpectedly enthusiastic fanbase in Mexican Americans. Spanish inflections illuminate a number of songs tonight, not least When You Open Your Legs, a cut from Low in High School that is among Morrissey\u2019s most ribald (and persuasive) recent tunes. Of Spain itself, though, he would prefer to say \u201cnothing\u201d, as he puts it, before launching into The Bullfighter Dies, a righteous takedown of Spanish bullfighting. This heartfelt plea for the underdog to come out on top for once has, in recent times, taken the place in Morrissey\u2019s set once reserved for Meat Is Murder, complete with gory scenes of the blood sport. Over a number of tracks tonight, Morrissey and his tour-honed band prove themselves adept at channelling not only those Spanish influences, but electronic inflections and Smiths-era classics alike. Low in High School divided critics \u2013 cautiously hailed in some quarters, but panned by others as yet more evidence of Morrissey\u2019s decline. The writer Stephen Trouss\u00e9 in Uncut summed up Low in High School as a series of memorable bullet points: \u201cFake news, the world burns. But I have discovered oral sex\u2026 and did I mention I received the Freedom of Tel Aviv?\u201d Many of the new songs leave the crowd attentive, but physically unmoved. One stands out, though, as strong a 21st-century Morrissey cut as you could wish for. Spent the Day in Bed is as musically light-footed tonight as it is lyrically breezy. The respite from politics is helpful. A splendid cover of the Pretenders\u2019 Back on the Chain Gang points up a little connection between Chrissie Hynde\u2019s \u201cohhhhh\u201d in Chain Gang and the \u201cAh-ah-ah-ah\u201d of \u201cI\u2019m so sorry\u201d from Morrissey\u2019s Suedehead. The Smiths\u2019 How Soon Is Now remains magnificent, as does Every Day Is Like Sunday. After Hold On to Your Friends, a terrace chant of Morrissey\u2019s name goes up and the singer seems genuinely touched. \u201cYou don\u2019t have to,\u201d he says. \u201cYou\u2019re here. That\u2019s all that matters.\u201d I\u2019m still struck by the song\u2019s words: \u201cA bond of trust has been abused,\u201d it goes. \u201cSomething of value may be lost.\u201d"
"18||\u2018Why I told my mother not to read my book\u2019 \u2013 memoirs of a former wild girlIn the days before I\u2019m due to speak to the writer Claire Dederer, the Freudian in me (admittedly quite a diminutive figure) begins to wonder if she isn\u2019t subconsciously trying to wriggle out of our conversation. First, there\u2019s trouble with her broadband connection, which means Skype is out of the question (she lives on an island just off Seattle). Then I\u2019m told that thanks to a terrible accident involving a pavement and her face, I\u2019ll have to wait a few days while mobility is restored to her stitched lip. Even when I do finally hear her (slightly subdued) voice down the line, part of me is still convinced she\u2019s about to hang up. After all, writers do sometimes suffer from the equivalent of buyer\u2019s remorse \u2013 and she would have more reason than most for doing so, being the author of what is surely one of the most excruciatingly frank memoirs ever to make it to hard covers. When she first began thinking about this memoir \u2013 its somewhat vague title, Love and Trouble: Memoirs of a Former Wild Girl, barely hints at the places it takes you \u2013 Dederer was 44 years old, and in possession of a life that was, by any standards, blessed. On her island, a democratic stronghold that is reachable only by ferry, she was living in her very pretty house (it has a badminton court and looks out over woodland) with her husband and two children; a journalist, she was also enjoying a big success with her first book, the best-selling Poser: A Mother\u2019s Life in Twenty-Three Yoga Poses (as Elizabeth Gilbert, the author of Eat, Pray, Love and a major Dederer fan, notes: \u201cIt is very difficult to find books about yoga that aren\u2019t incredibly annoying.\u201d) But appearances can be deceptive. Somewhere inside her, it was as if a switch had been flipped. She was having some kind of midlife crisis, one that involved some unnervingly juvenile behaviour. First came the listlessness and the crying jags. Then came the amazing friskiness: the compulsive flirting, the yearning for sexual \u201cobliteration\u201d. Taking all these symptoms into account, it occurred to her that the person she most resembled all of sudden was the \u201cdisastrous pirate slut of a girl\u201d she\u2019d been as a teenager. Was this \u2013 whisper it \u2013 the menopause? No. \u201cIt had nothing to do with my hormones,\u201d she tells me now, sounding almost weary at the thought. \u201cIt was an existential crisis; it was about the death of beauty and the decaying body \u2013 you know, the dying animal. Unlike men, who usually go through this apprehension of their own finality in their 60s, women tend to come up against it more in their 40s. I\u2019m pretty sure it has to do with the end of sexual viability, with the loss of the male gaze.\u201d The trouble is, though, that writing about this feeling \u2013 let us not call it the \u201cinvisibility\u201d of the middle-aged woman \u2013 is so fraught with danger. \u201cIt sounds so vapid,\u201d she says, \u201clike you\u2019re courting sexual harassment or something.\u201d Plus, there was the problem that her desires, which involved, just as they\u2019ve always done, both objectification and submission, were not exactly politically correct. \u201cIt felt daring [writing them down], even at the time. It\u2019s a strongly feminist book, but it\u2019s not party-line feminism. I was very concerned I was going to be called out.\u201d No wonder, then, that Love and Trouble took five long years to write. But where did those desires come from in the first place? How is it that she can be excited by \u201cthe idea of victimhood\u201d and still have been, like most women, victimised herself? This is one of several complex, intimate matters Love and Trouble attempts to investigate (another is the problem of sex between the long-married; yet another is the issue of predation, and the effect it has on the way women lead their lives). Dederer, who grew up in Seattle, was born at the back end of the 60s. As a tomboy who worshipped her older brother, Dave \u2013 even now she feels as if she\u2019s in drag when she puts on a dress \u2013 her childhood was marked by her parents\u2019 divorce in 1980, when her \u201cmatron mom\u201d took up with a bearded, braided, pot-smoking guy eight years her junior. Thanks to this, the family was reconstituted, made looser. It was a time, she writes in her book, of \u201cweirdos\u201d. Part of her mother\u2019s new freedom involved having these weirdos \u2013 friends of the new boyfriend, mostly \u2013 show up and stay for a while; another part was her new preoccupation with matters other than the purely domestic. Like most kids then, Dederer and her brother had, as a consequence, a licence to roam. These were, she thinks now, the best of times, and the worst of times. \u201cThe idea of being free was the salient point of the 70s,\u201d she says. \u201cIt had primacy over everything, and it had a sexual component: a revolution was happening that said all your old hang-ups were just that, and being free sexually was the most important thing.\u201d She pauses. \u201cThat seems victimless, right? But it wasn\u2019t. Parents were not home as much, and children were unsupervised. I was at large, roaming the veldt, and while that\u2019s something I miss for my own children \u2013 a lot of benefits came with that \u2013 there were risks, too. The culture was busy celebrating the sexuality of very young girls: Jodie Foster in Taxi Driver, Brooke Shields in Pretty Baby, every other album cover. The three things together created this tolerance [a blind eye] among adults which is horrifying to look back on. Children were the victims of the sexual revolution. I believe that deeply.\u201d Dederer isn\u2019t sure what effect all this had on her sexuality. When she was 13, for instance, a hippy in cut-offs climbed inside her sleeping bag (it was the holidays, she wanted to sleep under the stars); she just had time to feel his erection against her before he ran off, startled by the sound of her mother shouting the words: \u201cClaire! Goodnight!\u201d But making too much of such an incident \u2013 it terrified her, and yet some small part of her enjoyed the attention \u2013 strikes her as an overly neat way of ordering the messy narrative of her life. The chapter in her book that is called \u201cRecidivist Slutty Tendencies in the Pre-Aids-Era Adolescent Female\u201d, and which poses as an academic paper examining her behaviour as a teenager (\u201cLet us proceed to the subject\u2019s history\u2026 at 14, she acquired her first boyfriend\u201d), reaches no firm conclusion in the face of its subject\u2019s undoubted enthusiasm for promiscuity (\u201cThe subject never stopped, she was like a shark.\u201d) Nevertheless, from the moment she got going, sexually speaking, she was aware that she operated at a \u201chigher pitch\u201d than most. She may not have enjoyed every physical encounter: one of her memoir\u2019s chief virtues lies in the way it shows that good and bad sex are at once in close proximity and yet miles apart. But still, she craved such contact more than anything. \u201cI wanted harder,\u201d she writes. \u201cAnd yet I felt disempowered to take action. I needed someone to do it to me. This need would never go away\u2026\u201d And the point is, now, that she doesn\u2019t really mind that this is the case. \u201cI don\u2019t know if my desire to be dominated grows out of my early experiences,\u201d she says. \u201cBut that is part of the sexuality I was given, and I\u2019m not about to give it up.\u201d In the US, Love and Trouble came before the allegations against Harvey Weinstein and the rise of #MeToo, which meant that reviewers took its ribald tone at face value, often ignoring its darker undercurrents, the fact that its twin engines are sexual fear and sexual agency, and all the ways they operate, together and apart. Nor did they focus on the letter she includes in its pages to Roman Polanski (Dederer sees Samantha Geimer, who the director raped in 1977 when she was 13, as a \u201cuniversal symbol of the predation of little girls\u201d in the 70s). \u201cIt has been weird,\u201d she says, of this timing. \u201cPart of me thinks it\u2019s spookily prescient that I wrote about Polanski, and part of me thinks that as a subject it\u2019s depressingly eternal, and therefore not prescient at all. But yes, I feel part of my book got missed: the part that shows that these incursions, these violations, are happening around us all the time, and that even when they seem not to be a big deal, taken together, they add up to one. One thing the book gives you that\u2019s fascinating in the context of #MeToo is the feeling of what it\u2019s like to live with the aftermath of sexual predation. I moved through the world feeling afraid of rape and assault; that fear is inside me, omnipresent, and it has repercussions, which the book tries to get at.\u201d Her attitude to #MeToo is, however, lightly shaded with doubt. \u201cI think this moment is incredible,\u201d she says. \u201cThe gift of belief transferring from the accused to the accuser is unbelievably important. But I\u2019m concerned there\u2019s a way it will victimise or infantilise women\u2019s sexuality, and I guess this is based on my own experiences. If you just see sexuality as something that is done to you in a negative way, then a really big part of your own experience is taken away from you. Any time we try to normalise or standardise sexuality, the group whose freedoms are ultimately truncated is women. Infantilisation and demonisation of sexuality has not worked out well for women in the past.\u201d Dederer also worries about where we may be going in terms of the work of those with dubious private lives (she recently wrote for the Paris Review on the experience of re-watching Woody Allen\u2019s Manhattan). \u201cThese are murky waters to wade into,\u201d she says. \u201cBut I will continue to write about my belief that we don\u2019t jettison the art.\u201d The subject of her next book will be these \u201cart monsters\u201d. Naturally, she is leery of the \u201ceternal flow of hot takes\u201d on the issue of consent; read one way, Love and Trouble is a 235-page exploration of the subject, which seems to be the least the subject deserves. Still, as the mother of a 16-year-old son, she sees the current dialogue around it as a positive thing: \u201cIt\u2019s about taking the fear I\u2019ve lived with all my life, and making men have a part of it. When my son is at a party one day in the future, he will be afraid of being falsely accused, and that seems like a fair trade to me: that men have to start to walk on egg shells, too.\u201d Can this exist side-by-side with a sexuality that, as she puts it: \u201cembraces and enjoys the excitement and drama of being overcome and overwhelmed\u201d? She believes that it can, though the thrill of desire, \u201cthe drive to be wanted and admired by men\u201d, is perhaps even harder to talk about than consent. \u201cThat also runs through my book, and it\u2019s an embarrassing thing to discuss. Writing about it felt tender and vulnerable and goofy. When you\u2019re a girl, especially a pretty girl \u2013 that\u2019s also hard to say: it sounds obnoxious \u2013 there\u2019s such a gap between being and doing, between what you look like and the stuff inside.\u201d Ah, yes: embarrassment. For Dederer, various principles guide the creation of memoir. Good catharsis makes for bad writing. The concept of the transformed self is loathsome. Only \u201cdark truthfulness saves memoir from narcissism\u201d (though the squeamish British reader may feel, sometimes, that even this does not always do the job). For this last reason, then, her book features not only some pretty out-there self-debasement, including an episode in which, having dropped out of university, we watch her following a callous academic, aka the Quark Basher, to Sydney, only for him to abandon her. It also includes a buttock-clenching chapter called \u201cHow To Have Sex With Your Husband of Fifteen Years\u201d: \u201cKick the flowered quilt off the bed\u2026 reach into his boxer shorts\u2026 don\u2019t think about the back of your left leg, where you recently spotted a single, squiggling varicose vein\u2026\u201d It goes on for six pages. There seems to be almost nothing she won\u2019t tell us about what she and her husband do in the privacy of their own bedroom (it\u2019s always the bedroom: \u201cThe family spaces are too, well, family-ish.\u201d) I have to ask: how did those who are in the book respond to it, particularly the men? She hasn\u2019t heard from the Quark Basher. \u201cYou know what they say: if you write about someone, give them a big penis and then they never complain.\u201d What about her husband? (He is Bruce Barcott, also a journalist, and you can only imagine how he feels about the way she describes his naked body, or her email flirtation with a famous Californian short story writer.) \u201cNormally, I show him work in draft. But this was something I hid, like I was growing mushrooms in the basement, secret and dank. So when I had to give it to him, yeah, it was a problem. Partly because I hadn\u2019t talked to him about a lot of the feelings I was having.\u201d An intake of breath. \u201cIt was hard, but he dealt with it beautifully.\u201d They are together; she never actually cheated. And her mother? As I read Love and Trouble \u2013 compulsively, at once fascinated and repulsed \u2013 I\u2019d wondered how she\u2019d managed to keep going knowing that her parents might one day read it. Dederer laughs. She knows exactly what I mean. \u201cBut before it came out, I had a flash of genius,\u201d she says. \u201cI thought: I\u2019m just going to tell them not to read it, and if they then go behind my back, that\u2019s their problem, not mine.\u201d So far, she has no reason to suspect they might have done otherwise \u2013 that, or they are two superb actors. Love and Trouble: Memoirs of a Former Wild Girl by Claire Dederer is published by Headline at \u00a314.99. To order a copy for \u00a312.74, go to guardianbookshop.com. The book is reviewed in this week\u2019s Observer New Review"
"25||Your pictures: share your photos on the theme of 'cosy'The next theme for our weekly photography assignment in the Observer New Review is \u2018cosy .\u2019 Share your photos of what cosy means to you \u2013 and tell us about your image in the description box. The closing date is Wednesday 7 March at 10am. We\u2019ll publish our favourites in The New Review on Sunday 11 March and in a gallery on the Guardian site. You can share your \u2018cosy \u2019 pictures by clicking on the \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. GuardianWitness is the home of readers\u2019 content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others."
"1||A Fantastic Woman review \u2013 a bold and moving love storyBeyond the high-profile title fight between The Shape of Water, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, and Lady Bird, the most intriguing battle at tonight\u2019s Oscar ceremony will be for best foreign language film. The diverse contenders include Ildik\u00f3 Enyedi\u2019s ethereal On Body and Soul from Hungary; Ziad Doueiri\u2019s provocative The Insult from Lebanon; and Andrey Zvyagintsev\u2019s bleak Loveless from Russia. The bookies\u2019 favourites, however, are Ruben \u00d6stlund\u2019s Cannes Palme d\u2019Or winner The Square from Sweden, and the Chilean entry A Fantastic Woman, a bold and moving love story from Gloria director Sebasti\u00e1n Lelio with a mesmerising central performance by rising star Daniela Vega. Vega plays Marina Vidal, a waitress and aspiring singer whom we first meet performing a popular song (\u201cYour love is like yesterday\u2019s newspaper\u201d) with cool, alluring confidence. As she sings, her eyes meet those of her lover Orlando (Francisco Reyes), an older man who radiates adoration in Marina\u2019s presence. Gliding cameras and rich colours celebrate their relationship, sensual and full of vibrant life. At a birthday dinner, Orlando promises Marina a trip to the Iguazu Falls, one of the seven natural wonders of the world (the implication being that she is the eighth). Under shimmering lights, the couple dance; at home they make love. And then Orlando collapses and everything starts to unravel. What follows is a series of exclusions as Marina finds herself shut out of her former life. At the hospital to which Orlando is rushed, she is told to leave the examination room and forced to wait outside in a space labelled a \u201cdirty zone\u201d. Soon Orlando\u2019s family descend, banning Marina from the wake and funeral, demanding the return of Orlando\u2019s car, and turfing her out of the flat where the couple lived together. The cause of their hostility is clear; as a transgender woman, Marina is simply an unacceptable presence, someone whose very name seems to threaten their \u201cnormal\u201d lives. At the hospital she is treated like a criminal, first by doctors, and then by a police sergeant who brusquely insists that she prove her identity. \u201cI don\u2019t get what you are,\u201d sneers Orlando\u2019s son, Bruno (Nicol\u00e1s Saavedra), while repeatedly refusing to get her name right. Orlando\u2019s ex-wife, Sonia (Aline K\u00fcppenheim), goes further, pointedly calling her Daniel and telling her that her relationship with Orlando was just a \u201cperversion\u201d. Yet through it all she remains defiantly Marina \u2013 her name echoed in the water motifs that flow through the film; from the stormy seascape that adorns the wall of her bedroom, to the haunting song (\u201ctime keeps flowing like a river to the sea\u201d) to which she dances with her love. The style of the film is equally fluid, moving from modern romance via social-realist drama to quasi-Lynchian detective thriller, the last signalled by the discovery of a key that leads the narrative down a rabbit hole. At one point the drama shifts into levitating musical fantasia, with our heroine flying upward toward the camera. And beneath it all is a ghost story, the image of Orlando haunting his love, reflected in glass \u2013 so near, yet so far away. Marina too, seems trapped in a liminal netherworld, constantly caught by her own mirror image. To Sonia she is merely \u201can illusion\u201d; to Bruno she is a monster. Yet having signalled her as \u201cfantastic\u201d, Lelio and co-writer Gonzalo Maza invest Marina with an almost mythical resilience, sending her on a voyage into the underworld from which she must emerge strengthened and renewed. In one dreamy sequence she battles an impossible windstorm on a city street. In another, she follows an apparition deep into the kingdom of the dead. The film\u2019s story may be firmly rooted in everyday reality, but there is a fable-like quality to its telling that adds a layer of transcendence. Comparisons with Almod\u00f3var are inevitable, although Lelio casts his net wider, citing Hitchcock and Louis Malle as influences alongside Buster Keaton and Busby Berkeley. Matthew Herbert\u2019s spine-tingling score moves from Bernard Herrmann-esque romance to something closer to science-fiction, perfectly capturing the changing tones of the drama. At the centre of it all is Vega, upon whose face cinematographer Benjam\u00edn Echazarreta focuses closely for much of the film. A magnetic screen presence, Vega is called upon to unify the film\u2019s shifting moods \u2013 no mean feat. It\u2019s a challenge to which she rises with ease, capturing our attention, engaging our sympathies, and stealing our hearts."
"3||Italy goes to the polls after divisive election campaignItalians are heading to the polls today to vote in one of the most uncertain elections in years and one that could determine if Italy will succumb to the populist, Eurosceptic and far-right sentiment that has swept through Europe. Confusion and delays blighted voting at some polling stations, with new anti-electoral fraud procedures being blamed for huge queues, while in one polling station in Rome voting had to be suspended due to the discovery of voting cards with the wrong candidates\u2019 names printed on them. Some polling stations remained closed in Palermo two hours into election day because the wrong ballots were delivered and 200,000 new ones had to be reprinted overnight. The campaign was marked by the primetime airing of neofascist rhetoric and anti-migrant violence that culminated in the shooting last month of six Africans. The results of the vote, which are expected to be announced early on Monday, could re-establish Silvio Berlusconi, the conservative former prime minister and billionaire forced out of office in 2011 under a cloud of scandal, as the dominant force in Italian politics. They might also reveal a surge in support for Italy\u2019s two main populist parties, the anti-establishment Five Star Movement and the far-right La Lega, which are both Eurosceptic, anti-free trade, pro-Kremlin and opposed to mandatory vaccinations despite Italy being hit by a measles outbreak. La Lega, previously known as the Northern League, openly embraces an \u201cItalians first\u201d ideology, while Five Star has focused on corruption, but their ascent in recent years from fringe parties to significant players in Italian politics has underscored the depth of anger within the electorate. The centre-left, led by the former prime minister Matteo Renzi, sought on Friday to make a last-ditch appeal for moderation, calling on the significant number of undecided voters \u2013 about 30% \u2013 to \u201cthink carefully\u201d. While the centre-right coalition that capitalised on the anti-migrant sentiment led the polls last week, analysts predict the likeliest outcome is a hung parliament. That will necessitate days and weeks of backroom haggling and horse trading to come up with a coalition government that can win confidence votes in parliament. Just which parties coalesce from among the three main blocs \u2014 the centre-right coalition, centre-left coalition and the Five Star Movement \u2014 will determine Italy\u2019s course. \u201cIt is very likely that, at the end of the day, none of these three groups will have an absolute majority and they will be forced to start talking to each other and see how to put together a coalition government,\u201d said Franco Pavoncello, the dean of the John Cabot University in Rome. More than 46 million Italians are eligible to vote from 7am to 11pm (6am-10pm GMT), including Italians abroad who already used postal ballots. Exit polls are expected after polls close, with projections sometime thereafter. With unemployment at 10.8% and economic growth in the eurozone\u2019s third-largest economy lagging the average, many Italians have all but given up hope for change. Polls indicated a third hadn\u2019t decided or weren\u2019t even sure they would vote. \u201cThe situation is pretty bad,\u201d said Paolo Mercorillo from Ragusa, Sicily, who said he had decided not to vote. \u201cThere aren\u2019t candidates who are valid enough.\u201d The anti-establishment Five Star Movement hoped to capitalise on such disgust, particularly among Italy\u2019s young, and polls indicated the grassroots movement launched in 2009 by comedian Beppe Grillo would be the largest vote-getter among any single party. The Five Star candidates were not expected to win enough to govern on their own, and they have sworn not to form coalitions. The movement\u2019s leader, Luigi Di Maio, recently suggested, however, he would be open to talking with potential allies. Analysts predict the only coalition with a chance of reaching an absolute majority is the centre-right coalition anchored by Berlusconi\u2019s Forza Italia party. The coalition includes the anti-migrant Lega and the nationalistic, neo-fascist-rooted Brothers of Italy party. Berlusconi, 81, cannot run for office because of a tax fraud conviction, but he has tapped the European parliament president, Antonio Tajani, considered a pro-European moderate, as his pick if the centre-right is asked to form a government. Lega leader Matteo Salvini is gunning for the top job too though, and some pro-European analysts envision a possible \u201cnightmare scenario\u201d of an extremist alliance among the Five Stars, the Lega and Brothers of Italy. The presence in Rome this weekend of Steve Bannon, the rightwing populist architect of Donald Trump\u2019s White House campaign, was an indication of the stakes. Roberto D\u2019Alimonte, of Rome\u2019s LUISS University, said such an outcome would be \u201ccatastrophic\u201d for the markets. But he said the Five Stars will have to decide if they\u2019re going to join the right or the left if they\u2019re going to move from their longtime perch in the opposition to actually help govern. \u201cThis will be the moment of truth,\u201d he said."
"26||Disability aids firm faces string of customer complaintsYou helped a reader last year with a complaint about Cheap Disability Aids, which has changed its name to Sensory Education. I have been chasing it for months about an order, but getting nowhere. How can we (as consumers) get it to face up to its shortcomings? There are numerous complaints on the web, but it is still trading. It\u2019s appalling it plays on the sensory angle as it knows that parents will pay over the odds for things to help their children with disabilities. I\u2019ve only lost \u00a340, but reading the reviews I\u2019m disgusted it still exists. AB, Manchester, Lancs We have also found it impossible to make contact, despite regularly emailing and phoning. If the seller is refusing to give you your money back, put your complaint in writing and follow its complaints procedure \u2013 although it sounds as if you have already hit a brick wall. After everything we have read about this company in both its guises, we advise you to report it to trading standards, which you can do through the Citizens Advice consumer helpline (03454 04 05 06). The company\u2019s head office is in Birmingham, so the team there is your best bet. You might still be able to get your money back through your bank or payment provider, depending on how you paid. If it was by debit or credit card, and as the amount you are owed is less than \u00a3100, try to get your money back as a chargeback claim. You will need to contact your provider within its time limit \u2013 usually 120 days \u2013 which may well now be too late. We would encourage any other disappointed shoppers to complain to trading standards to get them to tackle this organisation. We welcome letters but cannot answer individually. Email us at consumer.champions@theguardian.com or write to Consumer Champions, Money, the Guardian, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. Please include a daytime phone number. Submission and publication of all letters is subject to our terms and conditions"
"27||'Dehumanising, impenetrable, frustrating': the grim reality of job hunting in the age of AIAccording to Nathan Mondragon, finding the right employee is all about looking at the little things. Tens of thousands of little things, as it turns out. Mondragon is the head psychologist at Hirevue, a company that offers software that screens job candidates using algorithms and artificial intelligence (AI). Hirevue\u2019s flagship product, used by global giants such as Unilever and Goldman Sachs, asks candidates to answer standard interview questions in front of a camera. Meanwhile its software, like a team of hawk-eyed psychologists hiding behind a mirror, makes note of thousands of barely perceptible changes in posture, facial expression, vocal tone and word choice. \u201cWe break the answers people give down into many thousands of data points, into verbal and non-verbal cues,\u201d says Mondragon. \u201cIf you\u2019re answering a question about how you would spend a million dollars, your eyes would tend to shift upward, your verbal cues would go silent, or turn to \u2018ums\u2019 and \u2018ahs\u2019. Your head would tilt slightly upward with your eyes. The facial movement analytics would tell us you were going into a creative thinking style.\u201d The program turns this data into a score, which is then compared against one the program has already \u201clearned\u201d from top-performing employees. The idea is that a good prospective employee looks a lot like a good current employee, just not in any way a human interviewer would notice. It sounds far fetched. Approaches like vocal analysis and reading \u201cmicroexpressions\u201d have previously been applied in policing and intelligence with little clear success. But Mondragon says their automated analyses line up favourably with established tests of personality and ability, and that customers report better employee performance and less turnover. Hirevue is just one of a slew of new companies selling AI as a replacement for the costly human side of hiring. Bath-based Cognisses specialises in games that predict various aptitudes (\u201cpersonality is hard to gamify, but we\u2019re working on it,\u201d Boris Altemeyer, their head of technology, told me.) San Francisco\u2019s Mya Systems offers a reactive, AI-powered chatbot that will conduct the entire interview process. Hirevue estimates the \u201cpre-hire assessment\u201d market is worth \u00a32.14bn (US$3 billion) a year. According to Doug Rode, senior managing director at recruiter Michael Page, the past year has seen a marked increase in companies aggressively selling AI packages of widely variable quality. A study last year by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development found an average of 24 applicants for an average low wage job. Tesco, the UK\u2019s largest private employer, received well over three million job applications in 2016. As the number of people applying for jobs has increased, employers have removed human beings from the hiring side whenever possible, automating more and more of the decisions in the process. This started over a decade ago with simple programs that scanned text CVs for keywords about education, skills and past employers in order to flag them for recruiters. It has expanded to include a bewildering range of quizzes, psychometric tests and custom built games that can be used to reject applicants before a human ever sees their application. This shift has already radically changed the way that many people interact with prospective employers. The standardised CV format allowed jobseekers to be evaluated by multiple firms with a single approach. Now jobseekers are forced to prepare for whatever format the company has chosen. The burden has been shifted from employer to jobseeker \u2013 a familiar feature of the gig economy era \u2013 and along with it the ability of jobseekers to get feedback or insight into the decision-making process. The role of human interaction in hiring has decreased, making an already difficult process deeply alienating. Beyond the often bewildering and dehumanising experience lurk the concerns that attend automation and AI, which draws on data that\u2019s often been shaped by inequality. If you suspect you\u2019ve been discriminated against by an algorithm, what recourse do you have? How prone are those formulas to bias, and how do the multitude of third-party companies that develop and license this software deal with the personal data of applicants? And is it inevitable that non-traditional or poorer candidates, or those who struggle with new technology, will be excluded from the process? \u201cIt\u2019s all these artificial barriers, it makes people feel the hiring process is impenetrable,\u201d says Heather Davies, a retired HR coordinator and one of the organisers of a Christians Against Poverty jobs club that meets weekly in a church hall in Muswell Hill, London. While there\u2019s acceptance among attendees that increasing automation is inevitable (\u201cit\u2019s 2018 after all\u201d), there\u2019s real frustration at the hollowing out of human interaction. \u201cIt\u2019s a bit dehumanising, never being able to get through to an employer,\u201d says Robert, a plumber in his forties who uses job boards and recruiters to find temporary work. Harry, 24, has been searching for a job for four months. In retail, where he is looking, \u201cjust about every job\u201d has some sort of test or game, anything from personality to maths, to screen out applicants. He completes four or five tests a week as jobs are posted. The rejections are often instant, although some service providers offer time-delay rejection emails, presumably to maintain the illusion that a person had spent time judging an application that had already failed an automated screen. The rejections pile up without ever signposting a different path. Every time you start again from zero. \u201cIt\u2019s frustrating. You never know what you\u2019ve done wrong; it leaves you feeling a bit trapped,\u201d Harry says. The problem is compounded amongst older jobseekers. Many rely on support from council or voluntary services to help them fill out applications or submit CV forms. \u201cIt\u2019s a big barrier. Why is an older guy who is a bricklayer suddenly expected to have IT skills?\u201d asks Lynda Pennington, who organises another jobs club in Croydon. Kirsty McHugh, head of the Employment Related Services Association (ERSA), which advocates for jobseekers, raises concerns about programs that \u201cscreen out non-traditional applications without thinking\u201d. ERSA members wouldn\u2019t encourage employers to use them, she added. Most of the data on unemployment in the UK ignores the vast ocean of people who have given up looking for work. The ONS says 8.7 million people aged 16 to 64 are \u201ceconomically inactive\u201d\u2013 not working and not seeking work. It\u2019s impossible to predict how many people will be put off looking for a job by the new realities of the hiring process. Even amongst the groups where automated hiring is seen as the biggest success, there is some apprehension. Several professional recruiters told me that at every job level many candidates were put off by these systems, and that they failed to engage \u201cpassive but talented\u201d applicants. A survey by the recruiter Allegis Global Solutions found that 58% of North American job applicants said they were comfortable interacting with an automated program \u2013 an ambiguous statistic widely interpreted as a green light. Deborah Caldeira, a masters student at the London School of Economics, told me that after 86 unsuccessful job applications over the past two years \u2013 including several Hirevue screenings \u2013 she is thoroughly disillusioned with automated systems. She says that without a person across the table, there\u2019s \u201cno real conversation or exchange,\u201d and it\u2019s difficult to know \u201cexactly what the robot is looking for\u201d. Despite her excellent grades and extracurriculars, she was plagued by doubts that she didn\u2019t look or sound like the ideal candidate, whose form was unknown to her. Sitting at home alone performing for a computer, she found herself questioning every movement. \u201cIt makes us less confident, and feel that we\u2019re not worthwhile, as the company couldn\u2019t even assign a person for a few minutes. The whole thing is becoming less human, which is concerning. What\u2019s the limit for the use of automation when we are evaluating people?\u201d she says. An underground fightback of sorts against automation has emerged, as applicants search for ways to game the system. On web forums, students trade answers to employers\u2019 tests and create fake applications to scope out their processes. A colleague relayed a story about a HR employee for a major technology company who recommended slipping the words \u201cOxford\u201d or \u201cCambridge\u201d into their CV in invisible white text, to pass the automated screening. I spoke with a jobs counsellor for high school students who has observed similar strategies. The apex of this practice is perhaps the Wales-based company Practice Aptitude Tests, which collates information from jobseekers and former employees about recruitment tests and sells practice versions, as well as tips and tricks for navigating them. Guy Thornton, the head of the company, claims the service has been used over three million times. It\u2019s difficult to determine exactly how widespread the automation of hiring is, chiefly because companies aren\u2019t keen to disclose how much automation they make use of. Several of the UK\u2019s largest employers, including Sainsbury\u2019s and Tesco, declined requests for interviews about their application process. Both Sainsbury\u2019s and Tesco use a simple situational quiz to prescreen shop floor-level jobs. But most large companies use some form of screening, according to reports from jobseekers and jobs counsellors. And Thornton says that over the past few years, small and medium businesses are increasingly adopting it. There are a variety of popular and legislative pushes to tip the balance of power back towards those seeking work, according to Christina Colclough, director of digitalisation and trade at UNI Global Union, which represents skills and services globally. Labour unions have been slow to respond to technological change, but UNI Global and others are working on a variety of workers digital rights charters governing automated and AI-based decisions, to be included in bargaining agreements. And an imminent update to the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will require a company to disclose whenever a decision that \u201csignificantly affects an individual\u201d was automated. The applicant will also be entitled to contest the decision, or request human intervention. But the GDPR is not a catch-all, warns Sandra Wachter, a lawyer and research fellow in data ethics at the Oxford Internet Institute. Wachter notes that even minimal human involvement \u2013 approving a list of automatically ranked CVs, for instance \u2013 could exempt companies from the obligation of disclosing that they use automated systems and of enabling individuals to challenge the decision. She also says a much-discussed \u201cright to explanation\u201d, requiring a company to explain how a given automated decision was made, will not be legally binding. \u201cLegislators find this difficult because these programs are very technical, highly complex and difficult to understand, even to the experts who build them. And their workings are often protected by copyright held by a company,\u201d she says. Its significant that the GDPR specifically mentions recruiting as an area targeted for regulation. Its an acknowledgement of how comprehensively the field has changed. And it opens the door for jobseekers to take more power in the process. \u201cPeople are getting more conscious about these systems and may take the right to contest decisions,\u201d Wachter says."
"11||Six former foreign secretaries on Brexit, Britain\u2026 and BorisAmid the prosaic setting of British politics, with its fusty civil servants and turgid party meetings, the secretary of state for foreign and commonwealth affairs stands out as the most glamorous of cabinet appointments. There\u2019s the exotic travel, the hobnobbing with dignitaries, the adrenalin rush of serious global events \u2013 who cares about the campaign to stop the local post office closing down when you\u2019ve got a vote at the UN security council to deal with. And there\u2019s the sense, bolstered by your Foreign Office staff and the never less than precarious condition of international relations, that what you say and do actually matters. Still, behind all the photocalls, the joint accords and bland diplomatic statements, what does a foreign secretary really do? After all, when it comes to the most critical foreign policy \u2013 military intervention \u2013 it\u2019s the prime minister who\u2019s in the hot seat. Although foreign secretary is one of the three great offices of state beneath that of the PM, it doesn\u2019t enjoy the autonomy of chancellor or the isolation of home secretary \u2013 a ministry from which prime ministers are often all too keen to distance themselves. At the key moments, foreign policy is the preserve of No 10. Furthermore, at this present juncture, the job description of foreign secretary seems more amorphous than ever. Britain stands at an uncertain crossroads. The world order is shifting, and our traditional ally, the United States, is run by a maverick reality TV star who wants to pull back from international commitments while conducting global policy via his Twitter account. Then, of course, there is Brexit. The nation seems stuck at the door, neither ready to face the harsh world outside nor prepared to return to the embittered marital home. For all the talk of getting our country back, there is a growing fear that we will return to being what John Updike once called \u201ca soggy little island huffing and puffing to keep up with western Europe\u201d. And where in all this trepidation is the current foreign secretary, Boris Johnson? He appears to have been more vocal about the plight of the National Health Service \u2013 not traditionally seen as part of the Foreign Office\u2019s remit \u2013 than he has been involved in the most momentous change in foreign policy since the second world war. And when he does intervene, as shown by his recent comparison of the Irish border to the line between the London boroughs of Camden and Islington, he tends to make more headlines than headway. In an age of American unpredictability, Russian subversion, Chinese expansionism and European divorce, what should British foreign policy be, and what does or should a British foreign secretary do? To get an answer to these questions, I set out to speak to as many former foreign secretaries as possible. There are 10 of them still living. Philip Hammond, who was in the role from 2014-2016, is still in the cabinet, and therefore not forthcoming enough for our purposes. John Major only did the job for three months, barely enough time to unpack the family photos. Douglas Hurd, who retired from politics two years ago, is 87 and has recently been unwell, and Peter Carrington, the last hereditary peer to hold the post, is 98, and a little out of circulation. That left six who were keen to talk, some of them very keen, so much so that it required all my powers of diplomacy to extract myself from their loquacious company. There aren\u2019t many places to go when you\u2019ve been foreign secretary. Either you become prime minister or it\u2019s down or out. In theory, you could get shifted sideways to chancellor, as happened with Hammond, but in the case of the six I spoke to, foreign secretary was the highest political office they were to hold. So I couldn\u2019t help but detect a melancholy hankering for grander times enshrouding some of the reminiscences. Even David Owen \u2013 who at 79 still displays the intellectual confidence that intimidated many political opponents, not to mention allies \u2013 betrayed a certain nostalgia for his globetrotting days in office. He speaks in forensic detail of meetings and conversations that took place over 40 years ago, suggesting they still occupied a treasured place in his thoughts. I spoke to Owen at his home, the location in 1981 for the \u201cLimehouse Declaration\u201d that launched the Social Democratic party, with its commanding view of the Thames. Owen became foreign secretary at the age of 38, one of the youngest in history. He served James Callaghan\u2019s government between 1977 and 1979. Was he daunted by the size of the job at such a young age? \u201cI was always accused of either being abrasive or arrogant. Which in part was true,\u201d he says in a tone that does not convey regret. \u201cBut, you know, you have the confidence of youth. One of the things about being appointed young is that you can absorb a huge amount of information quickly. And it isn\u2019t long before you have to keep up to date with the constant flow of telegrams.\u201d Owen believes that he was the last but one of what he calls \u201cthe historic foreign secretaries\u201d, those who ran foreign policy themselves rather than meekly deferring to the prime minister of the day. \u201cI think the job changed hugely after [his successor] Carrington\u2019s resignation [at the start of the Falklands war],\u201d he says. Thereafter, he believes an emboldened Margaret Thatcher took ever more control of foreign policy. This trend, according to Owen, slackened a little under John Major but was redoubled by the time of Tony Blair. \u201cI mean, [Blair] didn\u2019t really like Robin Cook. He didn\u2019t like any of his foreign secretaries.\u201d He says Labour\u2019s most successful prime minister subsumed much of the foreign secretary\u2019s remit \u201cinto the No 10 machinery\u201d in what he describes as \u201can unbelievable constitutional power grab\u201d. Unsurprisingly, the other five foreign secretaries I spoke to didn\u2019t agree that they were their PMs\u2019 ventriloquist dummies. All acknowledged Owen\u2019s general point but in one way or another saw themselves as exceptions to that rule. Perhaps the most confusing case is the current foreign secretary. He appears to have more political liberty than any cabinet member in a generation\u2026 except, it seems, in matters of foreign policy. What is Owen\u2019s opinion of the man? \u201cI\u2019m not going to answer this question,\u201d he replies, uncharacteristically coy. \u201cI joke and say that it\u2019s a trade union of foreign secretaries. It\u2019s a hard enough bloody task without being sniped at by your fellow foreign secretaries.\u201d Later on he says he thinks Johnson is a \u201cbig figure\u201d and \u201cperfectly competent\u201d. So I ask about the gaffe involving Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, the Anglo-Iranian woman imprisoned in Tehran on charges of \u201cplotting to topple the Iranian regime\u201d. In evidence to the foreign affairs committee, Johnson controversially described Zaghari-Ratcliffe as someone who was \u201cteaching people journalism\u201d, a phrase that was jumped on by the Iranians as confirmation of her supposed treason. \u201cI don\u2019t believe he made a mistake on this because he\u2019d forgotten,\u201d says Owen. \u201cNow, either he is not devoting enough time to reading and keeping up to date in this huge field, or the selection of telegrams for him is not good enough from his own private office.\u201d I ask a few more Johnson-related questions, and the fiercely pro-Brexit Owen concludes with a firm warning: \u201cAll I\u2019m telling you is that there are ominous signs that the real lessons of the failures of British foreign policy over the last 20 years or so have not been learnt: the prime minister has got to appoint somebody as foreign secretary they trust. The foreign secretary has to have a dominant relationship over the secretary of state for defence, but a close one. But ultimately those two need to work together, and there must be a readiness of the prime minister to support them in battles with the chancellor wherever humanly possible.\u201d Malcolm Rifkind, who served under John Major\u2019s premiership, largely endorses Owen\u2019s stark appraisal. I meet him in his London flat a few hundred yards from Westminster. The place is thick with photos of Rifkind with major figures like Margaret Thatcher and Mikhail Gorbachev, and the wistful air of bygone glories. Rifkind\u2019s career came to an ignominious end after a \u201ccash for access\u201d sting operation by the Daily Telegraph and Channel 4 led him to step down as chairman of the intelligence and security committee and give up his safe Kensington seat. A parliamentary investigation later exonerated him. He became foreign secretary in July 1995, almost exactly in the middle of that misleading lull between the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the Twin Towers, when history was alleged to have ended. But history was stubbornly continuing in the Balkans. A week after Rifkind got the job, the massacre of more than 8,000 Muslim Bosnians took place at Srebrenica. Rifkind\u2019s predecessor, Hurd, pursued a policy of neutrality, supported by Rifkind, that was criticised for leaving the Bosnian Muslims at the mercy of well-armed Serb nationalism. Srebrenica stung Nato into action, and the air strikes that followed brought the Bosnian war to a swift end. After the failure of the non-interventionist line to impede the war, the belated bombing seemed to herald the new paradigm of progressive military engagement that Tony Blair would later adopt. Rifkind demurs. \u201cI think that the road to Baghdad began in Kosovo,\u201d he says sternly. Back in the 90s, such was the sense of optimism that even the Israel/Palestine conflict seemed soluble. Rifkind believed that peace was within reach until Yitzhak Rabin was assassinated by an Israeli rightwing extremist in November 1995. The day after Rabin\u2019s funeral, Rifkind visited the Palestinian leader, Yasser Arafat, in Gaza. \u201cHe said, \u2018I\u2019m sorry, this is going to be a shorter meeting than I would\u2019ve liked because I\u2019m being driven up to see Leah Rabin (Rabin\u2019s widow), to pay my condolences privately.\u2019 The chemistry was of a totally different order to what we have now, and Mahmoud Abbas [the current Palestinian leader] is a much more moderate guy than Arafat ever was.\u201d Rifkind tells the story to demonstrate how critical personal relations are to international relations. \u201cWhere people are looking for solutions, they find solutions. When they\u2019re looking for problems, they find problems. You can make a difference by your own personal involvement, the relationship you have with the foreign ministers of other countries, even if they don\u2019t always agree with you.\u201d In Boris Johnson\u2019s case this task has been made more challenging by his track record of insulting foreign leaders. Just two months before he became foreign secretary, he wrote a poem about President Erdo\u011fan of Turkey having sex with a goat. Four months later he was in Ankara meeting Turkey\u2019s EU minister, \u00d6mer \u00c7elik, and promising, now that Britain was leaving, to support Turkey\u2019s bid to join the EU. Notwithstanding these lyrical contributions, Rifkind believes Johnson is able to build good personal relationships but suggests he\u2019s undermined because he lacks the backing of Theresa May. \u201cI\u2019d have made David Davis [secretary of state for exiting the European Union] part of the foreign office structure \u2013 but then I would have been more confident in the choice of foreign secretary that I had.\u201d Before I leave him, I ask Rifkind what he thinks of his successors. He runs through them in chronological order. Robin Cook, he says, was intensely disliked within the foreign office because of his chaotic style of working, but was held in high regard by foreign ministers. Cook notably declared his aim to have an \u201cethical dimension\u201d to policy, a statement on which Rifkind took issue. \u201cNot because there shouldn\u2019t be an ethical dimension, but to imply somehow you can only have as your diplomatic allies people who share your political values just doesn\u2019t make sense in this sad, imperfect world, and ultimately he agreed with that.\u201d Jack Straw, who followed Cook, he describes as a \u201chighly able guy\u201d who \u201cwas perhaps unfortunate having Blair as his boss\u201d. Straw lives in a quiet square a few minutes walk from the Oval cricket ground in Kennington. He fell foul of the same sting operation as Rifkind and stood down from parliament before the last election. He too was exonerated by parliament\u2019s commissioner for standards. He\u2019s a genial character who, despite having been home secretary and foreign secretary for a combined total of nine years, displays none of the sense of entitlement that politicians of a similar standing tend to exude. Straw believes foreign secretary is a job apart because, unusually in British politics, foreign policy is \u201cbroadly bipartisan\u201d. He was by his own account quite surprised to be given the job by Tony Blair, with whom, he says, contrary to Owen\u2019s claim, he had a good relationship. \u201cThe first thing you\u2019ve got to accept if you become foreign secretary is that the lead on foreign policy is going to be taken by the head of government. It was ever thus.\u201d I mention that Owen said it was different in his day. \u201cOh, I enjoyed significant autonomy as well on some stuff, most notably about Iran. I\u2019m not trying to diminish David\u2019s role, but I think it\u2019s more true with Peter Carrington over Zimbabwe, where he just ploughed on when Margaret Thatcher was in a relatively weak position in the early stages of her premiership.\u201d He says the point is that while diplomacy is about resolving international disputes without resorting to war, the \u201cmoment that the issue of military action appears on the horizon, the centre of gravity is bound to move to No 10. That\u2019s been true at all times.\u201d He started at the Foreign Office in June 2001. The Balkans had settled down, and the first three months were almost becalmed. His priority was to curb the excesses taking place in Zimbabwe by helping financially with the land transfers from white farmers to black \u201cwar veterans\u201d. Straw says he barely consulted Blair over this. \u201cAnd then,\u201d he says drily, \u201c9/11 happened and everything changed.\u201d During the course of the following 18 months, the UK, in support of the US, would enter two far-reaching wars, first in Afghanistan and next in Iraq. There would be mass anti-war protests, disputes about legality, allegations of British involvement in torture and renditions, British citizens held in Guantanamo, the spread of radicalisation across the Muslim world, the war on terror and instability throughout the Middle East. Short of a world war, no British foreign secretary is likely to experience that kind of succession of events for the foreseeable future. The policy of intervention that had secured peace and stability in Kosovo and Sierra Leone had, by the end of Straw\u2019s stint in office, begun to look deeply suspect. It was Blair who made the decisions to go to war, but Straw was in agreement. \u201cIn practice, we had no option with Afghanistan, unless you wanted to leave it to the venal forces of the Taliban and their readiness to allow al-Qaida to carry on with its training camps and to commit atrocities around the world.\u201d About Iraq he was much more sceptical. His wife and children were against the war and would have joined the protest march had he not been foreign secretary. He knew that soldiers and civilians would be killed in significant numbers, although he never expected the scale of bloodshed that was to follow. \u201cThat\u2019s a responsibility you\u2019ve got to bear,\u201d he says, \u201cand if you don\u2019t, you shouldn\u2019t take on these jobs.\u201d Right up until the last moment, he was considering telling Blair that they should offer \u201cmoral support to the Americans, help with reconstruction\u201d, but not put troops on the ground. In the end, he was persuaded by Saddam\u2019s intransigence with weapons inspectors. \u201cI thought they must have [WMD], otherwise why are they dicking about refusing to let the inspectors in.\u201d The Iraq war remains his biggest regret in office. With hindsight, he says, \u201cit would have been better that we\u2019d not started\u201d. In reality, Straw\u2019s influence was limited. He had good relations with his American counterpart, secretary of state Colin Powell, but Powell was himself sidelined by others in the Bush administration. The only effective power Straw had was to resign, and by the time he realised that a civil war was brewing, his resignation would have had no impact on policy. Which brings us to the much vaunted, \u201cspecial relationship\u201d with America. Owen had told me that in his opinion it operated only in military and intelligence terms. But if the British military was subordinate to woeful American planning \u2013 the disbanding of the Iraqi army and dismissal of all Ba\u2019ath party members was, says Straw, a disaster \u2013 then how special was that arrangement? \u201cThe special relationship was a phrase I sought to avoid,\u201d he says, \u201cbecause I thought it was patronising of the Americans and a piece of conceit by us.\u201d Even after two wars and an unrelenting workload, Straw was disappointed to be removed from the job by Blair. \u201cIt was very odd the day after,\u201d he says. \u201cEnoch Powell famously said that all political lives end in failure. He was wrong. The thing is, all political lives end \u2013 and they end rather abruptly.\u201d But what of that political life that, like a cat, appears to have multiple extensions? What does he think of Johnson? \u201cHe\u2019s got a good grasp of history,\u201d he says evenly. \u201cHe understands about political diplomatic forces, which is one of the most important qualifications for being foreign secretary. But sometimes he lets his persona as a showman get the better of him. I personally don\u2019t think that works very well.\u201d Straw was replaced by Margaret Beckett, the first ever female foreign secretary. I visit her at her capacious office in the bowels of parliament, where she still sits as MP for Derby South, 35 years after first being elected. Rifkind described Beckett as \u201ca bright, intelligent lady\u201d who didn\u2019t have \u201cmuch impact during the short period that she was there\u201d. \u201cIt wasn\u2019t,\u201d he felt, \u201cher scene.\u201d It seems that Beckett wasn\u2019t welcomed by some in the rather clubby atmosphere of the Foreign Office. She was told by a female Foreign Office veteran soon after she arrived: \u201cI hope you realise there are people here who don\u2019t think a woman should be foreign secretary.\u201d She was taken aback by this news, coming as it did six years into the 21st century. Her approach to the job was to establish what the priorities were for foreign policy, but in this task she found the Foreign Office reluctant to help. \u201cIn the end,\u201d she says, \u201cbasically I and my special adviser did it together.\u201d She believes her task wasn\u2019t helped by her refusal to cultivate the media, and therefore, she believes, she was saddled with a difficult image. \u201cGoing around the gossip circuit, telling spiteful stories against my colleagues has never been something I thought was part of the job,\u201d she says with a knowing smile. Instead she focused on developing good working relationships with her foreign counterparts. And in this, she did believe in the \u201cspecial relationship\u201d. \u201cIt was real, it was important, and it wasn\u2019t particularly a problem for me. I mean, I had a good relationship with Condi [secretary of state Condoleezza Rice), and it wasn\u2019t one where I just did what she thought I ought to do. We had a genuine dialogue.\u201d She never had to contend with the protests her predecessor witnessed but did receive flak for not calling for an immediate ceasefire when Israel went into Lebanon. She was even collared in a supermarket over Israel\u2019s response to Hamas rocket attacks. \u201cI remember someone shouted out, \u2018Shopping while Gaza burns!\u2019. And I thought, well, you know, we do have to eat.\u201d A cool head and resilience, she says, are the main qualities required for the job, and the \u201crecognition that you will be blamed\u201d. How would she have dealt with building a relationship with Rex Tillerson, Donald Trump\u2019s secretary of state? \u201cIt must be very difficult because you sometimes get the impression the president doesn\u2019t know where he stands from one day to the next.\u201d Like most of the former foreign secretaries I speak to, she believes that the current one should be playing a \u201cmuch more major role\u201d in the Brexit negotiations, and would be if it was anyone else but Johnson. It sounds, I say, like she\u2019s not a fan. \u201cWhen I was told that some of them in the Foreign Office didn\u2019t think there ought to be a woman in the job, I thought to myself, I know exactly what sort of person they think should be foreign secretary. It should be somebody who went to the right school, who went to the right university, who is regarded as an intellectual and has wide knowledge of the world. And that\u2019s what they\u2019ve got.\u201d She deliberates before putting these thoughts on record because she thinks it\u2019s a bit \u201cbitchy\u201d, but then goes on to call Johnson a \u201cwalking embarrassment\u201d for his pronouncements on Brexit. Beckett was in the job for only a year before she was replaced by the man everyone was expecting to take over, the man Rifkind described to me as \u201cvery, very good\u201d with a \u201cnatural empathy\u201d for the job: David Miliband. Now based in New York, where he runs the International Rescue Committee, Miliband spoke to me by phone. Foreign secretary in Gordon Brown\u2019s government for three years from 2007, he says he had a clear vision of Britain\u2019s role in the world when he got the job. \u201cI talked about Britain as a global hub, connected to all the alliances that matter,\u201d he says, and \u2013 once again contrary to Owen\u2019s assertion \u2013 he insists he was his own man. \u201cGordon Brown was avowedly a prime minister who wanted to spend less time on foreign affairs than his predecessor. And that was symbolised in the toe-curling day when he didn\u2019t come to sign the Lisbon treaty \u2013 I beg your pardon, he arrived much later in the day than everyone else. When all the prime ministers and presidents were called upon to sign the treaty in a very large cathedral in Lisbon, I trotted up there on my own.\u201d He retains an engaged interest in global diplomacy, and it\u2019s his assessment that there is now profound uncertainty afoot about Britain\u2019s international role. \u201cThe abdication of American leadership on one hand, Brexit on the other, and all the causes and consequences of both those phenomena mean that it is legitimate to say there is an unprecedented questioning of Britain\u2019s foreign policy.\u201d People look to Britain to be \u201cpragmatic, sensible, stable\u201d, he says, but that\u2019s not the impression the world currently has. \u201cIt\u2019s hard to know what British foreign policy doctrine is at the moment. The government is consumed by dealing with Brexit, even if the Foreign Office has been banned from negotiating it \u2013 and that\u2019s a remarkable situation. There\u2019s also the reality that Boris Johnson has done a better job of undermining himself than any attack from me or anyone else could do.\u201d But isn\u2019t the post-Brexit vision supposed to be all about forming relationships with countries beyond Europe, reaching out to parts of the world to whom we\u2019d previously undersold ourselves? \u201cObviously you can say there\u2019s a global Britain under Brexit, which is the government\u2019s argument, but there\u2019s no question among the people I talk to in foreign policy circles and more widely that Britain has taken a turn towards isolation.\u201d So what should a foreign secretary be seeking to achieve in a post-Brexit world? \u201cThe job of the foreign secretary will be to try to recreate some of the structures and relationships that existed within the EU,\u201d he gloomily concludes, \u201cexcept with the very difficult fact that he or she is excluded from all the key meetings.\u201d Now in the Lords, William Hague, foreign secretary between David Miliband and Philip Hammond, paints a different picture of Johnson and Brexit. His pristine office is in Millbank, just along from parliament. He wants the UK to retain close links with the EU but argues that Johnson\u2019s main job lies elsewhere. \u201cI think he\u2019s a brilliant guy,\u201d he says, measuring his words. \u201cHe sees his job is to make sure Britain is engaged with the rest of the world while Brexit is going on. That\u2019s critically important, not only in being innovative in finding new ways to cooperate with the EU when we\u2019ve left, but also to show we\u2019re not becoming less active in the world.\u201d By Rifkind\u2019s estimation, Hague will not be remembered \u201cin terms of policy\u201d, but rather as someone who attempted to revive the Foreign Office, reverse the closure of embassies and restore foreign language training. But Hague will also be remembered for the Libyan intervention \u2013 David Cameron\u2019s call \u2013 and the failed House of Commons vote for intervention in Syria, following its use of chemical weapons. He describes this defeat as his \u201cworst point\u201d as foreign secretary, an \u201cabrogation of this country\u2019s responsibilities that made things in Syria worse and emboldened Russia to inflict more horrors on Syria than would otherwise have been the case\u201d. He doesn\u2019t regret the removal of Colonel Gaddafi in Libya, even though that country is now divided among warlords. But he says, a little ruefully: \u201cOne of the things we\u2019ve learned in the last 10 years is how difficult it is to create democracy in other cultures, and that doing that quickly can actually set things back.\u201d To return to Cook\u2019s \u201cethical dimension\u201d, I ask about the responsibilities of dealing with countries with bad human rights records. Do we not overlook such problems with, for example, Saudi Arabia, simply because we have lucrative trade deals? \u201cWe do have commercial and myriad of other links with countries whose system of government we don\u2019t agree with, but that does not mean we cut them all off, and, indeed, we would be in a terrible situation if we did.\u201d His policy, he says, was always to raise human rights at senior level meetings. \u201cI think part of the necessary skills of foreign secretaries is to be frank and civil at the same time.\u201d Yes, but should we be arming Saudi Arabia? He gives the kind of answer that can only be described as diplomatically evasive. \u201cIt\u2019s clearly in the interest of our national security for Saudi Arabia to be a strong and successful nation and for its leadership to be successful, and it\u2019s definitely in the interest of British industry for it to be able to buy from British industry. But it is also engaging in conflicts that raise questions about the use of what we sell to them.\u201d It was John Kenneth Galbraith who said that the one reliable rule of diplomacy is that when an official says that talks were useful, you can safely conclude that nothing was accomplished. And in the end, the job of foreign secretary, for all its superficial glamour, is something of a thankless task. You spend most of your time and effort working behind the scenes for trade, peace, better relations, ideally making the right noises on human rights, and no one takes much notice until you make a mistake or your prime minister decides to send the air force in. And yet, although Boris Johnson once called being mayor of London \u201cthe best job in British politics\u201d, most of his predecessors as foreign secretary would say that title belongs to the one he has now."
"22||The Shadow in the Garden: A Biographer\u2019s Tale \u2013 reviewIn 1971, on a Rhodes scholarship to Oxford, with an aspiration to be a writer, and a juvenile poem published in the New Yorker, James Atlas had two teachers. He recalls wandering into the study of the first, Professor John Bayley, \u201cin search of an assignment, or at the very least, human contact\u201d, and he was sent away with the instruction to go and read all of George Eliot, not just the big novels, and to come back when he was done, a task that Bayley clearly hoped would postpone further master-pupil engagement until the end of the year. The second teacher, however, Richard Ellmann, whose biography of James Joyce was itself a \u201cwork of art\u201d, was much more suited to the \u201cpriestly\u201d vocation that Atlas craved. Ellmann seemed to see in Atlas a fellow traveller in the curious compulsion of detailing the life of literary genius. Towards the end of his year with Ellmann, Atlas attempted to live up to his mentor by unravelling, in an exhaustive 20 pages, \u201cJoyce\u2019s use of the Renaissance philosopher Giambattista Vico\u2019s theory of historical cycles in Ulysses\u201d. At the top of his paper, Ellmann left a single valedictory pencil note: \u201cA good start,\u201d it said. Atlas is of the belief that a true biographer does not choose his or her subjects \u2013 the subjects rather move in and refuse to leave until their life has been written. He was first chosen in this way by Delmore Schwartz, the doomed American poet of the mid-20th century, who had gone from golden prodigy \u2013 championed by TS Eliot \u2013 to raddled derelict in a couple of decades. Schwartz had haunted Atlas\u2019s imagination since the biographer saw a newspaper picture of the poet when he was in his teens. But it was only after he began to pursue the fragments of a life that ended outside the Columbia hotel on Times Square in 1966 \u2013 when Schwartz had a heart attack while taking out his garbage \u2013 that he started to see the parallels between their lives. This was the reason he had fallen in love at first sight: \u201cDelmore\u2019s attachment to his early childhood, his unrealisable expectations, his piercing loneliness, his book hunger, his dread of failure\u2026 these were traits and longings we shared.\u201d Perhaps all writing is autobiography. That, at least, is one of the unavoidable themes of this unfailingly acute memoir of the biographer\u2019s art. Atlas\u2019s biography of Schwartz opened up life for him, he became an editor at the New York Times, he wrote for the New Yorker, he published a novel, he was invited to write other biographies, but none really snagged in his heart. In 1987, though, he wrote to Saul Bellow to share his growing realisation that he was the Nobel laureate\u2019s natural Boswell. The relationship, again, seemed fated in some way. Bellow had also written about Schwartz, in his novel Humboldt\u2019s Gift. Both men were formed in Chicago. \u201cI was the one,\u201d Atlas argued. Bellow was not convinced, and so the stalker\u2019s dance between avid biographer and reluctant subject, which is the substance of this book, and of Atlas\u2019s life, began. It is a triumph of chutzpah, and of desperation. At one friendly lunch, as he peppers his still reluctant subject with intimate questions and details the childhood acquaintances of Bellow\u2019s he had met and interviewed, Atlas remembers how \u201cBellow took me in with that keen, appraising look of his: Who is this guy? It was beginning to dawn on him: I was going to write his biography\u201d. There are elements in this indefatigable, sometimes toe-curling, pursuit that recall Nicholson Baker\u2019s granular obsession with John Updike, detailed in U&amp;I, and of Geoff Dyer\u2019s comic failure to write his life of DH Lawrence, Out of Sheer Rage. Like any one-sided love affair, Atlas\u2019s entrapment of Bellow is familiar in its trajectory but entertainingly unique in its particulars \u2013 and an inspiration for compulsive biographers everywhere. \u2022 The Shadow in the Garden by James Atlas is published by Corsair (\u00a330). To order a copy for \u00a325.50 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"14||The death of diesel: can struggling industry woo back consumers?No customers were troubling the Jaguar showroom in Welwyn Garden City on Friday, at the start of what is usually its busiest month. Even one with a car on order had not turned up in the snow, said Mark Lavery, chief executive of Cambria Automobiles, looking at a \u00a375,000 Jaguar coupe: \u201cShe doesn\u2019t want to spoil an F-type with all that salt on the roads.\u201d The unseasonal weather will only be a blip on sales: a bigger worry for the industry is the dark, persistent cloud over the future of diesel. The bottom is falling out of the market, to the point where one of Lavery\u2019s managing directors couldn\u2019t persuade his own mother to buy one: \u201cHis mum is 74, has driven a diesel for the last 15 years and has now changed it for a petrol one \u2013 a higher carbon-emitting, more polluting car.\u201d Yet while diesel vehicles were pushed by the industry and government on the promise of cutting carbon dioxide emissions, the world is now more urgently addressing its dirty corollary: the NOx emissions which have fouled urban areas and contribute to 40,000-50,000 premature deaths a year in the UK alone from air pollution. The drumbeat against diesel picked up pace this week as judges decided that German cities, in the heart of Europe\u2019s biggest car market, have the right to ban diesels on their streets, and Rome\u2019s mayor proposed an outright ban from 2024, a year before Paris expects the same. In London, in April 2019 an ultra-low emission zone will double the congestion charge payable to drive in the city centre for any but the very newest, Euro 6, diesel cars, and campaigners are pushing for even tougher sanctions. Boroughs including Islington and Camden have introduced higher parking charges for diesel drivers. Other UK cities are still considering how to implement so-called \u201ctoxin taxes\u201d on drivers of older vehicles, although Manchester and Leeds have made clear that ordinary car drivers would not be charged. Some manufacturers see the writing on the wall: this week, Fiat Chrysler announced plans to end production of diesel cars by 2022; Porsche has ditched two models and Toyota has indicated it will never launch a new diesel. But British manufacturers are keen to resist: Jaguar Land Rover in particular is on the hook, with diesel representing around 90% of its cars sold in 2017. It invested heavily four years ago in a new, multi-billion pound Euro 6 engine plant in Wolverhampton, just as Ford was spending almost \u00a3400m on its diesel plant in Dagenham. In 2017, UK car sales fell, marginally, for the first time in five years \u2013 but diesel numbers tumbled spectacularly, by 17.1%. The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT) pointed to relatively small tax reforms announced by the chancellor in the autumn as prompting a further exodus, with 30% fewer diesels sold last November and December than the same time in 2016. Even if measures are far short of any ban, David Bailey, professor of industrial strategy at Aston University, said: \u201cIn a sense the damage is already being done. Consumers have been spooked.\u201d Bailey predicts that diesel\u2019s UK market share will drop from one in two cars sold in the first half of this decade to one in seven by 2025. Growing evidence about the health damage from diesel pollution was thrust to the forefront by the Volkswagen scandal. While only the German manufacturer was found to be deliberately rigging emission tests, virtually every other carmakers\u2019 model was found to be far dirtier outside the lab. As the industry lobbied to delay stringent, real-world emission tests, the interim period saw some models licensed as Euro 6-compliant that would breach limits set after September 2017. Greenpeace has now unearthed data showing many Euro 6 models on sale emit far more NOx than industry rhetoric about their cleanest cars might lead people to believe. Bailey says: \u201cThat\u2019s likely to add to confusion for consumers over whether they should buy diesel at all. On this, the industry seems to have collectively shot itself in the foot.\u201d Resale values have fallen: according to comparison website motorway.co.uk, the average price of a used diesel car fell 5% between the first and final quarter of 2017, while petrol models grew 10% more expensive. Lavery is unsurprised: \u201cIn and around the M25, there\u2019s a massive switch to hybrid and petrol \u2013 less so outside. The conversation is, I want out of my diesel and into a petrol. The average consumer isn\u2019t concerned about their emissions: they\u2019re concerned they won\u2019t be able to drive it where they want to without being penalised.\u201d He said that there are \u201cpre-Euro 6 cars that, frankly, have the emissions of a small third world country\u201d. But he worries that people are being deterred from buying newer, cleaner diesels. \u201cWe shop online and a lot of things get delivered by the oldest, most polluting vans. Government has to come up with a scrappage scheme to get them off the roads \u2013 but the current policy just encourages the opposite.\u201d The SMMT warned this week that the decline of diesel models would increase Britain\u2019s carbon emissions as petrol engines are less fuel efficient \u2013 although the larger effect on rising CO2 was the sale of larger cars. The campaigners who forced the government, through a supreme court challenge, to belatedly tackle Britain\u2019s dangerously polluted air remain sceptical. Andrea Lee of ClientEarth said: \u201cIt is no use flying the flag for a \u2018clean\u2019 technology when we keep seeing more incriminating data that confirms that it isn\u2019t.\u201d"
"24||Jonathan Wilson: Rare Birds review \u2013 a rich, ambitious triumphFew albums in recent years have been so adept at aping the sound of early 70s Laurel Canyon as Jonathan Wilson\u2019s aptly titled Gentle Spirit. It suggested that the singer-songwriter liked nothing more than lying in a hammock, a cannabis cloud above him, staring at the stars. Not so. His third solo LP proves that he\u2019s more complicated than his hippy persona intimates, its widescreen ambition revealing his kinship with Roger Waters, whose band he joined last year. Notably, there are drum machines and synthesisers, giving parts of Rare Birds an 80s art-rock feel, plus a newfound fondness for the space between the notes. Loving You underlines Wilson\u2019s regard for the shape-shifting one-off Arthur Russell, while the drowsy, celestial 49 Hair Flips graphically dissects an old relationship. It would be misleading, though, to pretend that Wilson has severed his ties with soft rock. At times, as on the anodyne Living With Myself, he is a little too soft for his own good. But Rare Birds is sprawling, rich and, by and large, a triumph, its cosmic mindset and focus on detail breathing drama into songs that in lesser hands might sound stale."
"13||The week in dance: Macbeth; Beautiful \u2013 reviewThe choreographer Mark Bruce plows a dark furrow. His work is saturated in the gothic, the mythic and the weird. Sea of Bones (2006) riffed on The Bacchae, and saw bowler-hatted zombies tearing Orpheus to pieces. Dracula (2013) was every bit as bloodily unwholesome as you could wish (the piece won a South Bank Sky Arts award), and The Odyssey (2016) plunged audiences into a maelstrom of vengeance and magic. Bruce\u2019s new work Macbeth, set to dirge-like choral pieces by Arvo P\u00e4rt, affords us yet another slide into the sinister. The piece is set in an alternative present, in which the men wear sharply cut suits, witches wear leather skirts and gull-feather head-dresses (costumes are by Dorothee Brodr\u00fcck), and the illuminated windows of distant housing blocks are visible at twilight. Lit in tenebrous style by Guy Hoare, and with a higher severed head-count than any previous Bruce production, the piece is carried by a superlative performance in the title role by Jonathan Goddard. His Macbeth is a lean and savage soldier, at home on the battlefield but unnerved by the air-kissing and ambiguity of Duncan\u2019s court. Bruce\u2019s choreography for the character is tensely sprung, at once airily proprietorial and neurotically convoluted, and as Goddard stalks the stage, predatory but wary, we are shown every step on his journey to murder. It\u2019s a grand guignol performance, but a convincing one. As Lady Macbeth, Eleanor Duval is nakedly, rapaciously ambitious. As she urges her husband to the sticking point, her hands clench and unclench in a frenzy of status greed. In the production\u2019s most tightly focused sequences, the choreography and performances are wonderfully reflective of Shakespeare\u2019s writing. In Goddard\u2019s spiky paranoia there\u2019s a clear echo of Macbeth\u2019s complaint that \u201cfull of scorpions is my mind\u201d, and his mesmerised inspection of the knife that Duval has rammed into a tree stump, as spirits squeak and gibber around him, is a potent reimagining of the \u201cIs this a dagger...?\u201d speech. Not everything works so well. There\u2019s very little variation of pace, perhaps as a consequence of the Part score. The Banquo\u2019s ghost sequence doesn\u2019t quite pull its weight, despite lashings of blood, and the witches, for all the assured dancing of Carina Howard, Hannah McGlashon and Daisy West, could be a lot witchier. At present there\u2019s too little to indicate their supernatural status; they look like sixth formers punked-up for a party, not baleful agents of chaos and evil. Sweetshop Revolution is a dance company launched by Sally Marie, a notably fearless physical theatre performer turned choreographer. Her work, which includes the much-admired I Loved You and I Loved You (2015), is at once confrontational and delicate. Like Caroline Finn, Fleur Darkin and others, Marie is one of a cohort of dancemakers engaged in a rigorous charting of the female realm and its wilder shores. Beautiful, her latest work, sets out to convey the shape and emotional colour of five young women\u2019s sexual experience. We meet them in girl gang mode, banging out a cheerily self-objectifying number in sparkly mini-dresses. It\u2019s fun, even as it demonstrates the power of sexist cliche to anonymise and bleach out personality. The women, all in their early 20s, return as vocal individuals, each with her own complex and often abrasive physical signature. Marie likes to set up suggestively evanescent facades, and then subvert them. There are tableaux arrayed in chiffon and pink tulle, whispered intimacies, bedroom confidences. On a couple of occasions the dancers assume the elegantly distracted attitudes of the models in a 1930s Vogue pictorial. But each time these notionally feminine mises-en-sc\u00e8ne implode as the visceral imperatives of sex assert themselves. As Andy Pink\u2019s score growls and reverberates, movement erupts from the dancers\u2019 bodies, propelling them into flying leaps and collapses, earthy churnings, and extremes of tension and melting. The cast are all fine performers, but a yearning solo by Tania Dimbelolo, in which she whirls and wavers like a flame in the half-dark, fixes itself in the memory. Beautiful fractures at times, and there\u2019s a little too much angsty strutting, but the piece\u2019s central message is strongly delivered: sexuality is a state of being, not of doing. This is dance drawn from within, and it has power. Star ratings (out of 5) Macbeth \u2605\u2605\u2605 Beautiful \u2605\u2605\u2605 \u2022 Macbeth is at Wilton\u2019s Music Hall, London E1, until 17 March. Box office: 020 7702 2789 \u2022 Beautiful is touring until 24 March"
"25||Simone Lia on art critics"
"24||David Byrne: \u2018I\u2019m able to talk in a social group now \u2013 not retreat into a corner\u2019The first time David Byrne came to the Roundhouse in Camden was in 1977, when his band, Talking Heads, supported the Ramones. Both bands were deluged with phlegm, because that\u2019s what punks thought they were meant to do then. Forty-one years later, the man, the venue and the fans have all changed. Tonight, Byrne is treating a small, respectful audience in the Roundhouse\u2019s Sackler Space to a PowerPoint lecture called \u201cReasons to be Cheerful\u201d. Nobody spits. Byrne came up with the idea two years ago. Obama was on his way out, Trump was on his way up, and Byrne wanted to alleviate the gloom by collating stories of positive change from around the world \u2013 not grand schemes but small, pragmatic innovations that work. Looking like a dapper academic with his sharp grey suit and shock of white hair, the 65-year-old clicks through his slides: carbon-neutral urban planning in Sweden, high-speed bus lanes in South America, an anti-corruption game show in Africa. To quote one of his famous lyrics, this ain\u2019t no disco, but nor is it out of character. For most of his life, Byrne has been asking if things can be done differently. The following afternoon, tucked into the corner of a hotel lounge, I ask him if the exercise has worked. Has it made him more cheerful? \u201cI don\u2019t know,\u201d he says. \u201cI think I\u2019m a naturally cheery person so I don\u2019t have anything to measure it against. Maybe if I didn\u2019t do it I\u2019d be really depressed, but I have no idea.\u201d Some of his friends find this confusing. \u201cThey do sometimes ask me: \u2018David, you seem to be fairly happy most of the time. What\u2019s up? What\u2019s going on with you?\u2019\u201d Byrne laughs. He has a selection box of laughs \u2013 simmering chuckle, conspiratorial giggle, strangled whinny, lusty guffaw, something that sounds like a suppressed sneeze \u2013 yet remains somewhat detached. He gazes out of the window at the rush-hour crowds, he studies an unwanted plate of fancy biscuits, he looks nowhere in particular. Very occasionally, as if by accident, he makes eye contact. \u201cI\u2019ve changed over the years,\u201d he insists. \u201cI\u2019m imperfect, but I communicate better. I don\u2019t just bury things and let them explode at some point. I\u2019m able to talk in a social group whereas before I would retreat into a corner.\u201d It makes you wonder how much Byrne would have achieved if he had been naturally sociable. In 1986, he was billed on the cover of Time magazine as \u201cRock\u2019s Renaissance Man: Singer, Composer, Lyricist, Guitarist, Film Director, Writer, Actor, Video Artist, Designer, Photographer.\u201d Since then, he has released six solo albums; recorded with Brian Eno, St Vincent, Arcade Fire and De La Soul; scored movies, plays and TV shows; won an Oscar; founded the Luaka Bop record label; started an online radio station; composed an operetta about Imelda Marcos with Fatboy Slim; exhibited artwork; written books about music and cycling; published volumes of photographs and sketches; designed bike racks; turned a ferry terminal into a musical instrument; and played himself on The Simpsons. Like Brian Eno, a friend and collaborator for 40 years, Byrne has parlayed rock celebrity into a life so eventful that it makes merely performing in a band look parochial. \u201cThere are certainly things I\u2019ve done that weren\u2019t as good as they could have been,\u201d Byrne says. \u201cOr I\u2019ve taken wrong turns and there\u2019s no fixing it. But then you think, well, move on. Don\u2019t worry about it too much. Better to keep the creative muscles moving rather than sitting and waiting for the great stuff to arrive.\u201d When he meets Eno, Byrne says, they often don\u2019t talk about music at all. I suspect he wishes his interviews were more like that. Byrne is about to release his first solo album in 14 years, American Utopia, and Reasons to be Cheerful is a way to make the promotional schedule more interesting. \u201cI tend to avoid the life story,\u201d he says. In place of a memoir, his 2012 book How Music Works was a curious (in both senses of the word) amalgam of autobiography, anthropology and theory in which he often came across as a neutral observer of his own life. Talking Heads released their final album in 1988, but their influence endures. Just last year, Selena Gomez built her hit, Bad Liar, around the groove from 1977\u2019s Psycho Killer. In the 2016 movie 20th Century Women, a teenage boy in late-70s California is bullied for liking \u201cart fags\u201d Talking Heads instead of hardcore punk bands. Byrne finds this so hilarious that he can barely speak. Byrne, bassist Tina Weymouth and drummer Chris Frantz met at the Rhode Island School of Design and formed Talking Heads in 1975; keyboardist/guitarist Jerry Harrison joined later. They were chronologically punk, but spiritually post-punk, determined to dismantle the clich\u00e9s of rock\u2019n\u2019roll and write their own rules. \u201cNo rock moves or poses, no pomp or drama, no rock hair, no rock lights, no rehearsed stage patter,\u201d Byrne wrote in How Music Works. They questioned everything. What is a rock band? What is a pop song? Why this? Why not that? A better title would have been How Does Music Work? Byrne\u2019s songwriting perspective is summed up on his new single, Everybody\u2019s Coming to My House: \u201cWe\u2019re only tourists in this life / Only tourists but the view is nice.\u201d Even when he wasn\u2019t singing in character \u2013 a psychopath, a televangelist, a domestic terrorist \u2013 he had a knack for making the familiar strange and unnerving. Animals, vehicles, buildings, TV, weather, haircuts\u2026 everything was seen with alien eyes. It\u2019s no surprise to learn that his one attempt at writing a short story (\u201creally not my thing\u201d) was science fiction. \u201cI\u2019m not just going to take the received technique,\u201d he remembers thinking when the band started. \u201cI have to start from scratch and see what comes out. I thought there\u2019s no rule that says you can\u2019t do this, so let\u2019s try writing about something that nobody\u2019s written about before.\u201d To do that, you need an unusual perspective on the world. \u201cIt always seems completely natural to me because it\u2019s me,\u201d Byrne says with amusement. \u201cI\u2019ve had enough people tell me that it\u2019s not completely typical that I know, oh, OK, to some people this might seem a little odd. But then often I feel like no, I\u2019m just giving you an objective description of what\u2019s in front of me. What\u2019s so odd about that?\u201d The personality that spawned such unique music did not make him easy to share a band with. A few years ago, I interviewed Tina Weymouth and she was still furious about how she thinks Byrne treated the rest of the band. \u201cDavid\u2019s a very different kind of person,\u201d she told me. \u201cHe doesn\u2019t relate emotionally to things. You cannot guess what\u2019s in his mind, and what he says and what he does can be two entirely different things.\u201d A few days after I meet Byrne, Chris Frantz, who is married to Weymouth, will write online that the singer had \u201cdemeaned, humiliated and marginalised\u201d her. Does Byrne feel bad about this unresolved tension? \u201cUm,\u201d he winces, \u201cshe has said some wild things sometimes. I feel bad that the ending was so messy, but that tends to happen. It\u2019s pretty hard to have an amiable divorce.\u201d He brightens. \u201cAlthough I\u2019ve kind of managed that. We\u2019re actually friends now.\u201d (He means his 17-year marriage to the costume designer Adelle Lutz, which ended in 2004.) \u201cYes it was uncomfortable,\u201d he continues. \u201cI think I probably did not behave all that well all the time. Neither did the others. It was a very messy thing. But to hold on to that seems like\u2026\u201d he shrugs, \u201cwell that was quite a while ago.\u201d Was he a hard person to understand back then? \u201cI was probably a little bit less forthcoming. There were certainly periods when I was singularly focused on getting something accomplished.\u201d He mentions the tour for their 1983 album Speaking in Tongues, which traced an arc from paranoid solitude to communal ecstasy and was documented by Jonathan Demme in the film Stop Making Sense. \u201cThat was a real obsession. I can imagine I must at times have been a real pain in the ass to deal with. The shows were fine but maybe the experience with me was not always pleasant.\u201d Even if he were to mend that bridge, Byrne would have no interest in a reunion. It\u2019s not as if he\u2019s creatively lonely. American Utopia features contributions from Eno, Sampha and The xx producer Rodaidh McDonald. The seeds were sown years ago, when Byrne read Alexis de Tocqueville\u2019s Democracy in America while on tour (a very Byrne-like thing to do). \u201cMany of the chapter titles are questions,\u201d he says. \u201cYou can tell he wishes America well, but he sees a lot of problems in store. He sees it as a grand experiment, which a lot of people did at the time. That utopian sense is still there but it\u2019s very close to being completely extinguished.\u201d Byrne officially became an American in 2012. Although he has lived in the US since he was eight, he was born in Scotland and didn\u2019t apply for dual citizenship until an awkward conversation at a polling station. \u201cI\u2019d been occasionally voting before that,\u201d he admits. \u201cI naively thought it was legal and they never cross-checked. Then eventually they looked at my ID and said: \u2018You can\u2019t vote!\u2019 So I said OK, I\u2019ve gotta go through this whole thing now.\u201d Does it make him feel any different? \u201cIf you\u2019re going through passport control you start thinking, what if they think this means I agree with a lot of the things the US gets up to? But you could say that about people here as well. They might think they\u2019re more clever but they\u2019re not.\u201d Rather than get caught up in the \u201cpolitical noise\u201d of Trump, Byrne seeks out smaller, more uplifting stories. One of the modest heroes of Reasons to be Cheerful is Dale Ross, the Republican mayor of Georgetown, Texas, who broke with party dogma and invested in clean energy. \u201cThat to me was hugely inspiring,\u201d Byrne says. \u201cThis guy stepped out of the ring and said: \u2018I\u2019ve done the math and I think this would be better for my city.\u2019\u201d I can picture Byrne in City Hall, commissioning studies and introducing practical reforms. Remembering his own bohemian youth in 70s New York, he worries about the economic obstacles to creativity now. \u201cThings were allowed to flourish,\u201d he says. \u201cIn a city where the rents have gone sky-high, you might need to regulate things so there\u2019s a diversity of activities and incomes rather than closing it off and saying: \u2018Only fully successful people live on this island. The rest of you \u2013 call us when you\u2019ve got more money.\u2019\u201d Utopia, for Byrne, is not a particular place or system but an aspiration. \u201cIt\u2019s more about our yearning for something better,\u201d he says. \u201cWe keep asking ourselves: is there another way to live or is this the only way? Did we have to end up like this or could it have been different?\u201d He could be talking about his art. It\u2019s a long way from supporting the Ramones to writing a disco opera about Imelda Marcos, but Byrne\u2019s philosophy has been remarkably consistent. What he cherished about punk four decades ago was the DIY aspect. \u201cAnyone can do it,\u201d he says. \u201cIt was very inclusive in that way.\u201d He found the same DIY spirit at the Mudd Club, the early 80s New York hangout where you could find Byrne and Blondie, Basquiat and Warhol, Ginsberg and Burroughs. \u201cYou\u2019ve got an idea? You\u2019ve got something you want to try? Why not?\u201d He\u2019s still asking. \u2022\u2022\u2022 Global reasons to be cheerful By David Byrne 1. Healing the divide Georgetown is one of Texas\u2019s most conservative suburbs, but gets all its electricity from renewable sources. Its mayor, Dale Ross, a Republican in what is considered oil country, made a decision in 2015. He ignored party orthodoxy and did what was best for his constituents. That folks can think rationally and ignore partisan dogmas, on both sides, is hugely encouraging. 2. Norway prison reform Most countries\u2019 prison systems are failures \u2013 the rate of recidivism is abysmal. But Norway seems to have figured out a successful solution. Their incarceration rate is 75 per 100,000 people, compared to 707 per 100,000 in the US. The crime rate is lower, but part of the reason it\u2019s lower is because they focus on genuine reform, not just punishment. The rate at which inmates end up back in prison is 20% in Norway, versus 76.6% in the US. At Halden Prison there are no bars on the windows, they have full kitchens (knives included) and lots of job and vocational training. There\u2019s even a recording studio. So whatever they\u2019re doing, it\u2019s working. 3. Bike sharing has conquered the world Not only does it feel good to ride, but cycling relieves automobile congestion, it\u2019s good for business, it doesn\u2019t pollute, it\u2019s healthy and it expands the mental maps of residents\u2026 and I\u2019ve found it\u2019s often the fastest way to get around. Cities all over the world have adopted similar systems to the French V\u00e9lib system, and now some Chinese companies are introducing stationless systems. 4. Knock-on effects of culture We in the arts and humanities often complain that our work is undervalued, at least in terms of being beneficial to society compared to the Stem disciplines. Finally we have some proof, and the effects are somewhat unexpected. A recent study by the Social Impact of the Arts Project at the University of Pennsylvania showed that when libraries and other cultural institutions are placed in the boroughs around New York, there are surprising knock-on effects: a. The kids\u2019 test scores go up b. Spousal abuse goes down c. Obesity goes down d. The crime rate goes down Things that might seem to be unrelated are actually connected. To lower crime, maybe we don\u2019t need more prisons or stiffer sentencing; part of the solution might be to build a library. 5. Successfully dealing with drug addiction Fifteen years ago Portugal had a drug problem. Rather than declare a \u2018war on drugs\u2019 as the US and other places did, they took a bold and radical step, and it was hugely successful. Here\u2019s what they did. They decriminalised all drugs and began a major health campaign. They viewed drug use and addiction as a health issue, not a criminal justice issue. Last year there were 64,000 overdose deaths in the US. Among Portuguese adults there were only 30 drug- overdose deaths \u2013 which is 1/50th of the US overdose rate. Looks like they won the war on drugs by not joining it. reasonstobecheerful.world David Byrne\u2019s new album, American Utopia, is released on 9 March by Nonesuch Records. He tours the UK in June"
"1||The big picture: the Oscars, April 1960\u201cNo sovereign, no court,\u201d sighed Henry James when lamenting America\u2019s cultural poverty, \u201cno church, no clergy\u201d. To make up for those deficiencies, his compatriots invented the movies, manufacturing a pantheon of virile gods and nubile goddesses who outshone the chinless toffs admired by James. The sacred totem of this new religion was modelled on the chivalry that America officially rejected: the Academy Award takes the form of a sword-bearing crusader, proudly erect on a pedestal representing a reel of film. But the figure\u2019s knightly pretence was immediately undercut by a fond, familiar nickname: when an Academy employee saw the first gold-plated statuette in 1931, she said it resembled her Uncle Oscar. At the ceremony in 1960, the big victor was Ben-Hur, in which Charlton Heston\u2019s charioteer is as rigidly pious as the Oscar that he inevitably won. Dennis Stock shrewdly waited until the deities had departed, leaving behind the evidence of their self-indulgence: crumpled napkins, guttering candles, stubbed-out cigarettes and a bucket of sloppy ice \u2013 the detritus of a cocktail party, since, back then, before the proceedings were tidied up for television, the nominees could puff and tipple throughout the nerve-racking ordeal. Then, after the revels, Stock\u2019s camera told an indiscreet truth about the event and the art it celebrates. Despite his polished sheen, this crusader has not routed the pagans. Stranded among the empties, he surveys an unholy land that could be the home turf of the movies \u2013 a tabletop that is the messy playground of our appetites and dreams."
"1||The Nile Hilton Incident review \u2013 a cracking Cairo thrillerWriter-director Tarik Saleh\u2019s engaging, textured Cairo crime drama takes place during the build-up to 2011\u2019s Egyptian revolution, drawing parallels between the city\u2019s rising tensions and his noirish antihero\u2019s crumbling personal prospects. Though the film\u2019s powerful police officers and political officials have supposed \u201clegislative immunity\u201d, it turns out that \u201cno one is immune to scandal\u201d. Noredin (Fares Fares) is a craggy, handsome, chainsmoking detective who is called on to investigate the gruesome murder of pop star (and politician\u2019s mistress) Lalena, whose body has been found, throat cut, in the titular Nile Hilton hotel. The only witness to the crime is a Sudanese maid named Salwa (Mari Malek). With his prominent, avian nose and inquisitive eyes, Fares is a compelling screen presence, while Salehh\u2019s attention to details of life in a country on the brink of change give things a sense of grimy perspicuity."
"13||The Shadow Factory review \u2013 Southampton\u2019s wartime spiritJust over 40 years ago, Howard Brenton wrote the first new commission to be performed in the National\u2019s Lyttelton theatre. Now his latest play opens Southampton\u2019s newest theatre, the final piece in the city\u2019s vision of a cultural quarter, which includes galleries, O2 Guildhall, SeaCity museum and the Mayflower theatre. The Shadow Factory follows the consequences of a Luftwaffe strike on Southampton\u2019s Spitfire factory in 1940 - a critical juncture of the second world war. Local businesses were summarily requisitioned; transformed into \u201cshadow factories\u201d, they were to maintain production of the aircraft described as \u201ca violent, ugly killer \u2013 and exactly what we need\u201d by newspaper magnate and recently appointed minister of aircraft production Lord Beaverbrook (Hilton McRae\u2019s convincing, charming bully). Brenton\u2019s fictive exploration of these historical events follows the fortunes of the house on the hill and a family laundry business in the town (Anita Dobson is vivid both as Lady Cooper and laundry granny). The play\u2019s sweep is part epic, in its mix of points of view personal and political, and part pageant, in its demonstration (rather than working through) of situations and events \u2013 a well-integrated community chorus of singer-actors extends the scope of the action. Flying machines, roofscapes, bombscapes, interiors and landscapes are evoked stunningly via the adaptable lighting rig (59 Productions\u2019 design). This well-acted production, under Samuel Hodges\u2019s balanced direction, brings the substance that achieves Southampton\u2019s vision."
"1||Mom and Dad review \u2013 dangerous parentingDespite its A-List cast, this silly, violent B-movie slasher has the DIY look and feel of a student film. Almost ugly ultra-HD, a dated dubstep soundtrack and ketchup-splatter special effects might make a lesser film less appealing, but here these lowbrow touches work to Mom and Dad\u2019s advantage. Selma Blair and Nicolas Cage are Kendall and Brent, ordinary American parents whose senses are dulled by suburban malaise until a bizarre phenomenon sweeps the neighbourhood, filling parents with the overwhelming urge to kill their kids (newborns notwithstanding, squeamish viewers might be warned). Those with a soft spot for Cage\u2019s particular brand of berserk will have a great time; he spends the film on the precipice of a meltdown, bemoaning his ageing, \u201ccottage-cheese ass\u201d one minute, and maniacally waving a buzzing power saw the next."
"13||The week in theatre: Fanny & Alexander; Trust \u2013 reviewShould the theatre reflect the outside world, or be a refuge from it? Ingmar Bergman puts the question explicitly in his 1982 movie Fanny &amp; Alexander. No wonder playwright Stephen Beresford felt he should put it on stage. It is a risk: this (the third Bergman adaptation to be seen in London within six months) is a theatrical version of a film about a theatre family. What could seem more niche? Yet at its best, Beresford shows that the theatre can be mirror and shelter: a safe place in which to consider harshness. Bergman\u2019s most exuberant film \u2013 not a hotly contested award \u2013 is sumptuous and stark. Full at first of richly coloured fabrics, snow, sleds and candles; later swallowed up by abstinence and a puritan palette. This tale of a boy torn between bohemian warmth and clerical rigidity is an autobiographical collage, a source book for themes of Bergman movies. A boy\u2019s imagination running wild, a repressive father figure, wobbling identities, religious doubts and the terror that death is behind each locked door: a cloaked figure with a scythe is on the skulk. Max Webster\u2019s production begins unpromisingly, semaphoring its distance from the screen. Tom Pye\u2019s design features swishing red curtains on a bare stage: ah, theatre! Chunks of action are described by characters. After behaving quite normally, when the family tuck into a feast they do it in embarrassing mime. Yet the evening gathers strength and inner life. Guillermo Bedward is nimble as Alex. There are strong performances from a poised Lolita Chakrabarti and clenched Kevin Doyle. In terrible scenes of beating and imprisonment, Pye\u2019s design becomes a box of plain wooden planks: you can almost hear Strindberg\u2019s approval. Most of all, as the family matriarch, Penelope Wilton is an animated advertisement for having a good time when ing\u00e9nue roles are behind you. Egotism \u2013 or shall we call it self-assurance \u2013 helps. Wilton is wonderfully funny as she bosoms her way over everyone else\u2019s lines at a Hamlet rehearsal, and snobbishly quells an upstart wife with a flick of her eye. But she is also generous and skittish. No wonder her grandchildren want to be in her arms, nor that she has a long-time admirer: a Jewish patriarch and magician \u2013 twinkling, dapper Michael Pennington. \u201cI want to be that woman,\u201d said the young woman next to me at the interval. There was no need to ask who she meant. Elsewhere, theatre is clearly reflecting change. This is the age of the female monologue. As so often, all was foreseen by Caryl Churchill who two years ago in Escaped Alone provided highly wrought dystopian prophecies delivered as stand-apart speeches. In recent weeks, audiences have seen Carey Mulligan in Dennis Kelly\u2019s Girls &amp; Boys, Patsy Ferran in Anoushka Warden\u2019s My Mum\u2019s A Twat, as well as Monica Dolan and Milly Thomas in their own plays, The B*easts, and Dust. This is an important shift. As significant as any change in the subject matter of plays, or as personal revelations about bullying, sexual or mental. Audiences are seeing that different narrators have their hands on the reins. In Jude Christian\u2019s production (she has tweaked the order), Falk Richter\u2019s 2009 play Trust begins with one of those sustained feats of memory that stimulate and stun an audience. Christian herself delivers this state-of-the-world, topsy-turvy, free-wheeling address. She describes large parts of the urban landscape covered in a living installation, with sofas on which people snooze over social science books. Capitalism may be collapsing, possibly because members of the Baader-Meinhof group (Richter is German) have become heads of industry and banks. An Uber driver is writing a book about this theory. But let\u2019s not worry about what we might do if any of it is true: change involves too much trouble and pain. This is by far the best written part of Trust, which mixes ingenuity and wryness with scattergun silliness. A couple may or may not be breaking up: just like capitalism, you see. They talk with amnesiac blankness. A woman delivers a solemn speech, intriguing but over-extended, about how, being unsure of her value, she is \u201clike money\u201d. In a leaden episode towards the end, Christian and the other cast members \u2013 Pia Laborde Noguez and Zephryn Taitte \u2013 do yoga: no one wants to watch a trio of downward-facing dogs. There are fascinations. Ben and Max Ringham have created an unsettling soundscape, which makes a woman in sneakers sound as if she is striding through a marble hall in boots. In what is becoming a Gate trademark, members of the audience are unnervingly approached from the stage \u2013 offered food, and a chance to learn Mandarin. But the subject of where we put our trust deserves more than mere flickers. It needs a flare. Star ratings (out of five) Fanny &amp; Alexander \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 Trust \u2605\u2605\u2605 \u2022 Fanny &amp; Alexander is at the Old Vic, London SE1, until 14 April \u2022 Trust is at the Gate, London W11, until 17 March"
"1||Red Sparrow review \u2013 sexist spy thrillerIn this brutally violent spy thriller, Jennifer Lawrence plays Dominika Egorova, a prima ballerina in modern-day Moscow whose career ends abruptly after a nasty onstage injury. No longer able to pay for her ailing mother\u2019s care, she\u2019s forced to make a deal with her skin-crawlingly slimy uncle Vanya (Matthias Schoenaerts). He sends her to \u201cwhore school\u201d, where Charlotte Rampling\u2019s matron trains \u201csparrows\u201d, secret agents taught to wield seduction as a weapon to extract information. The tone is relentlessly bleak, and for all its depraved sexuality the film\u2019s gaze is more drooling teenage boy than genuinely adult or erotic. It\u2019s not that the entire project is redundant: a studio picture for grownups isn\u2019t something to be sniffed at, and there\u2019s enjoyment to be derived from its propulsive, glossy stylings and grandiose Russian locales (even if the same can\u2019t be said for its clunky handle on US-Russia relations). The problem is that the role doesn\u2019t showcase any of Lawrence\u2019s gifts as an actor. The tenacity and fiery wit that have come to define her don\u2019t fit within the confines of this bloodless, oddly blank character. There are whispers of past trauma, abuse and even incest that might explain Dominika\u2019s hardness, or at least her aptitude for both enduring and inflicting violence, but the film doesn\u2019t want to go there. Instead, it busies itself with the grim surface pleasures of ogling its central character as she is degraded in every way possible. It\u2019s not a spoiler to say that she winds up reclaiming some semblance of the power that men are constantly trying to strip from her, though it\u2019s a problem that Dominika\u2019s heroine\u2019s journey is framed as empowering. Neither her intelligence nor her general badassery are able to free her from the film\u2019s deeply sexist paradigm."
"24||Tracey Thorn: Record review \u2013 grownup feminist bangersGrown women could sorely use a riot grrrl movement of their own. Because later life still throws out what a disgusted Tracey Thorn, on Sister (a collaboration with Warpaint\u2019s rhythm section and Corinne Bailey Rae), recognises as the \u201csame old shit\u201d. Thorn is no stroppy three-chord bellower, though, having lungs of velvet and actual 80s pop stardom in her backstory (Everything But the Girl), as well as musical prowess at her disposal. This third solo album \u2013 \u201cnine feminist bangers\u201d, Thorn has quipped, with an immaculately raised eyebrow \u2013 finds the singer up against electronic backings, drilling down into complex emotions. And some simpler ones: Dancefloor is a vocoder-embellished 80s squelch-fest mostly dedicated to the joy of cutting loose while half-cut. Full of stoic resolution, Go could be a lament for a departing lover. Listen in, though, and it is a farewell to a departing offspring; Babies is an ode to birth control, then reproduction. The bangers themselves remain rooted in the 80s and 90s, perhaps limiting this pertinent album\u2019s reach across generations."
"1||Game Night review \u2013 rivalry takes a dark turnDirected by Jonathan Goldstein and John Francis Daley (who played Sam, Lindsay Weir\u2019s nerdy little brother in Judd Apatow\u2019s small-but-perfectly-formed TV series Freaks and Geeks), this surprisingly zingy, throwback studio comedy is witty and observant on the dynamics between couples. Rachel McAdams and Jason Bateman are Annie and Max, a competitive, board games-obsessed couple who are struggling to conceive. It\u2019s a blow to Max\u2019s ego when his sexy, wealthy older brother Brooks (Kyle Chandler) zips into town in a flashy red corvette to attend their weekly game night and even worse when he decides to throw his own murder mystery party in an act of smug one-upmanship. (\u201cSibling rivalry can be very powerful,\u201d deadpans the couple\u2019s fertility doctor.) At the party, the teammates are joined by childhood sweethearts Michelle (Kylie Bunbury) and Kevin (Lamorne Morris), good-natured meathead Ryan (Billy Magnussen), and his sardonic Irish date Sarah (Sharon Horgan), but not their weirdo neighbour Gary (Jesse Plemmons, stealing the show as a solemn, dog-clutching cop who dreams of being invited to play). The evening becomes no fun and all games when they discover that Brooks\u2019s elaborate setup has real \u2013 and dangerous \u2013 consequences. A visit to \u201cEyes Wide Fight Club\u201d and an amusing cat-and-mouse chase in pursuit of a Faberg\u00e9 egg are very funny, and McAdams is on riotously good form as the doggedly ambitious Annie, clearly having a ball in her zestiest comic role since the career-making Mean Girls."
"24||Titus Andronicus: A Productive Cough review \u2013 upbeat but underdoneTen years after their debut, Airing of Grievances, New Jersey punks Titus Andronicus finally seem to have got it all off their chests, their ragged, runaway energy softened into a soused sentimentality. Like 2015\u2019s epic, dark The Most Lamentable Tragedy, their fifth album stretches beyond their origins, but in a more upbeat direction: Real Talk adorns its rambunctious, soulful country-punk with sax, snatches of rap and a hokey, rootsy chorus straight out of Springsteen\u2019s Seeger Sessions, while Brooklyn singer Megg Farrell provides nobly weary vocals on the bar-room piano and folksy-fiddle lament, Crass Tattoo. The band sound stronger on the heavier, more familiar ground of Home Alone, which revels in low, brooding riffs, grungy snarls from frontman Patrick Stickles and swaggering 70s hard-rock tendencies. The weakest moment is the raddled semi-cover (I\u2019m) Like a Rolling Stone, a viewpoint-swap of Dylan\u2019s 60s monolith, in which the conceit wears thin by the end of the first verse; perhaps a female singer could cut to the heart of the song\u2019s strange, sexualised schadenfreude, but it\u2019s hard to see the point here. As a whole, A Productive Cough seems as underdeveloped as its back-of-a-medicine-bottle title: there are great moments, but four songs top the seven-minute mark without enough to justify it.And the amiable, piano-tinkled rock\u2019n\u2019soul of Above the Bodega (Local Business) hammers home its core lyrical idea \u2013 that Stickles can\u2019t keep a secret from the man at the store downstairs \u2013 so many times that by the end you\u2019ll be fervently wishing he\u2019d kept the fact secret from you. Reaching is commendable, but ultimately this feels like a throat-clearing before better things to come."
"3||Moment of truth for Italy\u2019s Five Star Movement as \u2018Gigi\u2019s\u2019 party peaks in pollsLuigi Di Maio is so confident his populist Five Star Movement (M5S) will triumph in today\u2019s Italian elections that he has already presented his would-be cabinet. In what he called an \u201cact of transparency\u201d, the impeccably groomed 31-year-old politician named his dream team, which includes an economist, a criminologist, a doctor and an Olympic gold medallist, three days before the election. Brushing off rivals who ridiculed the move, he boasted: \u201cWe will be the ones laughing on Monday, when Italians will probably take us to 40%.\u201d Voting began in Italy on Sunday morning and polls will close at 11pm. M5S will almost certainly emerge as the biggest single party, but with final opinion polls putting it on roughly 28% (and some pollsters suggesting it might secure an even higher vote), it is unlikely to reach the 40% required for a majority and to govern alone. To steer into power it would have to flout a rule sacred to its origins and form a coalition, a scenario already rejected by the party\u2019s founder, the irreverent comedian Beppe Grillo, and those devoted to its anti-establishment principles. But however things pan out, pundits are starting to wonder whether the elections will make or break a party whose phenomenal growth since its inception in 2009 has been boosted by mounting public anger and distrust of the political elite. \u201cIt probably is a \u2018now or never\u2019 moment,\u201d said Mattia Diletti, a political scientist at Sapienza University, Rome. \u201cThey will perform strongly, but if they have to rule with another party I\u2019m pretty sure there will be tension within the movement.\u201d Di Maio, who is as cryptic as the party he represents, played a shrewd game by announcing his ministerial line-up early. Apart from capturing media attention, it allowed him to counter claims that M5S officials are incompetent and at the same time appease ardent supporters with an \u201canti-politician\u201d list. He is convinced that the party can replicate its electoral success of 2013, when it won more than 25% of the vote, almost 10 points higher than polls had predicted, and became Italy\u2019s second-largest party. The eldest of three siblings, Di Maio was born in Avellino, a town in the southern Campania region. His CV may be modest \u2013 he has worked in restaurants, on building sites and as a steward at Napoli football club \u2013 but at the age of 26 he became the youngest ever deputy speaker of Italy\u2019s lower house of parliament. Described as the reassuring face of a party built by a rabble of rebels, he was elected as its candidate for prime minister in September in a move aimed at attracting moderate voters. The strategy is paying off: M5S has maintained its strength in the polls even though its squeaky-clean image has been tarnished by corruption scandals during the campaign. Support is particularly prominent in Di Maio\u2019s Campania, where swaths of voters are counting on the man who they affectionately call \u201cGigi\u201d being the master of a sweeping change, long awaited in an area of Italy ravaged by poverty and organised crime. \u201cI haven\u2019t voted for 40 years but this time I will vote for M5S,\u201d said Alessandro Esposito, 64, from Naples. \u201cThey are young and fresh and have good ideas. We should give them a chance.\u201d At Braceria, a modern pizzeria in Avellino, a waiter spoke enthusiastically about Di Maio, who pops in whenever he\u2019s in town. \u201cHe is always very kind and cordial,\u201d Maurizio Florio said. \u201cThere is a lot of support for M5S here; they represent something different.\u201d It is easy to understand the appeal. At one of his final rallies, in a packed theatre in Caserta, about an hour\u2019s drive from Avellino, Di Maio spoke about providing a universal income for the poverty-stricken; making it easier for young Italians to start a family; cutting business taxes; investing in education and repealing what he called \u201cuseless\u201d laws. \u201cI want citizens to wake up each day and feel the difference in their lives,\u201d he said, \u201cnot only to hear politicians saying that \u2018everything is OK\u2019.\u201d M5S has excelled in using the internet to track voter sentiment, a tactic that has often led it to oscillate between one stance and another, prompting suspicion among those who are less convinced. But forming a coalition, as Di Maio has suggested the party should do, should it fail to reach a majority, might be a step too far for grassroots supporters. A peculiar feature of the Italian political system allows parties to cast aside previous loyalties and form partnerships with others after a vote. With this in mind, commentators have mooted the far-right League (formerly Northern League), now in an alliance with Brothers of Italy and Silvio Berlusconi\u2019s Forza Italia, as a potential partner for M5S. Described as the \u201cnightmare scenario\u201d, this proposal has so far been ruled out by leaders of both parties, but with M5S and the League more closely aligned on issues such as immigration, it is not beyond the realms of possibility. With a hung parliament widely predicted, however, the more likely outcome of the vote will be a \u201cgrand coalition\u201d between Forza Italia and the centre-left Democratic party. So where would that leave M5S? \u201cIf they stay out of the game, there will be some turmoil and it will be difficult for Di Maio to keep the party united,\u201d said Jacopo Iacoboni, a journalist at La Stampa and author of The Experiment, a book about the Five Star Movement. \u201cA part of M5S will revert to its origins.\u201d Given Di Maio\u2019s popularity with supporters, the party\u2019s golden rule \u2013 that MPs should serve two terms only \u2013 might also be put to the test. Unless the rule is changed, this run will give Di Maio his final mandate. Although it is unlikely that he will be allowed to step down so easily, the party\u2019s future could hinge on another popular M5S official: Alessandro Di Battista. \u201cIf Di Maio doesn\u2019t gain power then there is another card to spare,\u201d said Iacoboni. \u201cDi Battista is Plan B; he has only done one mandate so he is perfectly in the running.\u201d FIVE STAR AGENDA Wages A minimum monthly income of \u20ac780. Laws Repeal 400 \u201cuseless\u201d laws, including labour and pension reforms, to allow earlier retirement and make firing harder. Migrants Di Maio wants an end to the \u201csea taxi service\u201d to rescue migrants. Environment Fossil fuels to be phased out by 2050."
"12||How populist uprisings could bring down liberal democracyThere are long decades in which history seems to slow to a crawl. Elections are won and lost, laws adopted and repealed, new stars born and legends carried to their graves. But for all the ordinary business of time passing, the lodestars of culture, society and politics remain the same. Then there are those short years in which everything changes all at once. Political newcomers storm the stage. Voters clamour for policies that were unthinkable until yesterday. Social tensions that had long simmered under the surface erupt into terrifying explosions. A system of government that had seemed immutable looks as though it might come apart. This is the kind of moment in which we now find ourselves. Until recently, liberal democracy reigned triumphant. For all its shortcomings, most citizens seemed deeply committed to their form of government. The economy was growing. Radical parties were insignificant. Political scientists thought that democracy in places like France or the United States had long ago been set in stone, and would change little in the years to come. Politically speaking, it seemed, the future would not be much different from the past. Then the future came \u2013 and turned out to be very different indeed. Citizens have long been disillusioned with politics; now, they have grown restless, angry, even disdainful. Party systems have long seemed frozen; now, authoritarian populists are on the rise around the world, from America to Europe, and from Asia to Australia. Voters have long disliked particular parties, politicians or governments; now, many of them have become fed up with liberal democracy itself. Donald Trump\u2019s election to the White House has been the most striking manifestation of democracy\u2019s crisis. It is difficult to overstate the significance of his rise. But it is hardly an isolated incident. In Russia and Turkey, elected strongmen have succeeded in turning fledgling democracies into electoral dictatorships. In Poland and Hungary, populist leaders are using that same playbook to destroy the free media, to undermine independent institutions and to muzzle the opposition. More countries may soon follow. In Austria, a far-right candidate nearly won the country\u2019s presidency. In France, a rapidly changing political landscape is providing new openings for both the far left and the far right. In Spain and Greece, established party systems are disintegrating with breathtaking speed. Even in the supposedly stable and tolerant democracies of Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands, extremists are celebrating unprecedented successes. There can no longer be any doubt that we are going through a populist moment. The question is whether this populist moment will turn into a populist age \u2013 and cast the very survival of liberal democracy in doubt. When democracy is stable, it is in good part because all major political actors are willing to adhere to the basic rules of the democratic game most of the time. Some of these rules are formal. A president or prime minister allows the judiciary to investigate wrongdoing by members of his government instead of firing the prosecutor. He puts up with critical coverage in the press instead of shutting down newspapers or persecuting journalists. When he loses an election, he leaves office peacefully instead of clinging to power. But many of these rules are informal, making it less clearcut when they are violated. The government does not rewrite electoral rules months before an election to maximise its chance of winning. Political insurgents do not glorify authoritarian rulers of the past, threaten to lock up their opponents or set out to violate the rights of ethnic and religious minorities. The losers of an election refrain from limiting the scope of an office to which an adversary has been elected in their last days in the job. The opposition confirms a competent judge whose ideology it dislikes rather than leaving a seat on the highest court in the land vacant, and strikes an imperfect compromise about the budget rather than letting the government shut down. In short, politicians with a real stake in the system may think of politics as a contact sport in which all participants are hustling to gain an advantage over their adversaries. But they are also keenly aware that there need to be some limits on the pursuit of their partisan interests; that winning an important election or passing an urgent law is less important than preserving the system; and that democratic politics must never degenerate into all-out war. \u201cFor democracies to work,\u201d Michael Ignatieff, the political theorist and former leader of the Liberal party of Canada, wrote a few years ago, \u201cpoliticians need to respect the difference between an enemy and an adversary. An adversary is someone you want to defeat. An enemy is someone you have to destroy.\u201d In the US, and many other countries around the world, that is no longer how democratic politics works. As Ignatieff put the point, we are increasingly \u201cseeing what happens when a politics of enemies supplants a politics of adversaries\u201d. And the new crop of populists who have stormed the political stage over the past decades shoulder a lot of the blame for this. The rise of political newcomers is as likely to be a sign of democratic health and vitality as it is of impending sickness. Political systems benefit from a thorough competition of ideas and from a regular substitution of one ruling elite for another. New parties can help in both ways. By forcing long-neglected issues on to the political agenda, they increase the representativeness of the political system. And by catapulting a new crop of politicians into office, they inject the system with fresh blood. Even so, there is good reason to think that the recent thawing of the party system is far from benign. For many of the new parties do not just provide ideological alternatives within the democratic system \u2013 they challenge key rules and norms of the system itself. One of the earliest populists to rise to prominence was Austria\u2019s J\u00f6rg Haider, a slick, charismatic politician from Carinthia. But the degree to which he was willing to undermine core norms of liberal democracy became apparent whenever he engaged in a sly revaluation of Austria\u2019s Nazi past. Speaking to an audience including many former SS officers, Haider claimed that \u201cour soldiers were not criminals; at most, they were victims\u201d. Breaking political norms is also a speciality of Geert Wilders, the leader of the Dutch Freedom party (PVV). Islam, he has argued, is \u201ca dangerous totalitarian ideology\u201d. While other populists have sought to outlaw minarets or burkinis, Wilders, determined not to be outdone, has gone so far as to demand a ban on the Qur\u2019an. By comparison to Haider and Wilders, a figure like Beppe Grillo seems far more benign at first blush, promising to take power from a self-serving and geriatric \u201cpolitical caste\u201d, and to fight for a more modern and tolerant Italy. But once the Five Star Movement gained in popularity, it quickly took on an antisystem hue. Its attacks on the corruption of individual politicians slowly morphed into a radical rejection of key aspects of the political system, including parliament itself. Anger against the political establishment was sustained by a growing willingness to engage in conspiracy theories or to tell outright lies about political opponents. The reason why populists and political newcomers are so willing to challenge basic democratic norms is in part tactical: whenever populists break such norms, they attract the univocal condemnation of the political establishment. And this of course proves that, as advertised, the populists really do represent a clean break from the status quo. There is thus something performative about populists\u2019 tendency to break democratic norms: while their most provocative statements are often considered gaffes by political observers, their very willingness to commit such gaffes is a big part of their appeal. But their recklessness is no less dangerous for all of that. Once some members of the political system are willing to break the rules, others have a big incentive to follow suit. And that, increasingly, is what they do. While some of the most spectacular attacks on basic democratic norms have come from political newcomers, the representatives of old, established parties have also become increasingly willing to undermine the basic rules of the game. At times, established parties on the left have given in to the temptation of violating democratic norms. In the US, Democrats have long engaged in unacceptable forms of gerrymandering. And during the Obama presidency, the executive continued to expand its role in some worrying ways, prosecuting a record number of journalists for handling classified information and using executive orders to bypass Congress in policy areas from the environment to immigration. Even so, most political scientists agree that the Republicans are now, by far, the best example for a concerted attack on democratic norms perpetrated by a nominally establishment party. Just take what happened in the wake of the 2016 gubernatorial elections in North Carolina. Roy Cooper, the Democratic candidate, won a highly contentious election by an extremely narrow margin. But instead of recognising that this gave him a mandate to rule for the next four years, Republicans decided to rewrite his job description. North Carolina\u2019s governor used to be responsible for appointing 1,500 gubernatorial staffers; according to a law passed by the outgoing Republican legislature, he would henceforth be permitted to appoint only 425. The governor had previously been charged with appointing up to 66 trustees to the school boards of the University of North Carolina; now, he would be permitted to appoint a grand total of zero. The naked partisanship of these actions is undeniable. So is their import: Republicans in North Carolina have effectively rejected the notion that we resolve political differences by free and fair elections and are willing to submit to the rule of our political rivals when we lose. Citizens are less committed to democracy than they once were; while more than two-thirds of older Americans say that it is essential to them to live in a democracy, for example, less than a third of younger Americans do. They are also more open to authoritarian alternatives; two decades ago, for example, 25% of Britons said that they liked the idea of \u201ca strongman ruler who does not have to bother with parliament and elections\u201d; today, 50% of them do. And these attitudes are increasingly reflected in our politics: from Great Britain to the US, and from Germany to Hungary, respect for democratic rules and norms has precipitously declined. No longer the only game in town, democracy is now deconsolidating. That conclusion, I know, is hard to swallow. We like to think of the world as getting better over time, and of liberal democracy as deepening its roots with every passing year. That is perhaps why, of all my claims, the one that has elicited the most scepticism is the idea that young people have been especially critical of democracy. For good reason, Americans and the British find it especially hard to believe that young people are most disaffected. After all, young people heavily leaned toward Hillary Clinton, the candidate of continuity, in the last US elections: among voters below the age of 30, 55% supported Clinton while only 37% supported Trump. The story of Brexit was very similar. Whereas two-thirds of pension-age Brits voted to leave the European Union, two-thirds of millennials voted for the status quo. But the attraction of the young to political extremes has grown over time. In countries like Germany, the UK and the US, for example, the number of young people who locate themselves on the radical left or the radical right has roughly doubled over the course of the past two decades; in Sweden, it has increased by more than threefold. Polling data for populist parties bears out this story as well. While young people were less likely to vote for Trump or Brexit, they are much more likely to vote for antisystem parties in many countries around the world. Marine Le Pen, for example, can count young people as some of her most fervent supporters. In this, France is hardly an exception. On the contrary, polls have found similar results in countries as varied as Austria, Greece, Finland, and Hungary. One possible explanation for why a lot of young people have grown disenchanted with democracy is that they have little conception of what it would mean to live in a different political system. People born in the 1930s and 40s experienced the threat of fascism as children or were raised by people who actively fought it. They spent their formative years during the cold war, when fears of Soviet expansionism drove the reality of communism home to them in a very real way. When they are asked whether it is important to them to live in a democracy, they have some sense of what the alternative might mean. Millennials in countries such as the UK or the US, by contrast, barely experienced the cold war and may not even know anybody who fought fascism. To them, the question of whether it is important to live in a democracy is far more abstract. Doesn\u2019t this imply that, if they were actually faced with a threat to their system, they would be sure to rally to its defence? I\u2019m not so sure. The very fact that young people have so little idea of what it would mean to live in a system other than their own may make them willing to engage in political experimentation. Used to seeing and criticising the (very real) injustices and hypocrisies of the system in which they grew up, many of them have mistakenly started to take its positive aspects for granted. Ever since philosophers began to think about the concept of self-rule, they have put particular emphasis on civic education. From Plato to Cicero, and from Machiavelli to Rousseau, all of them were obsessed with the question of how to instil political virtue in the youth. It is hardly surprising, then, that the small band of patriots who dared establish a new republic in America at a time when self-government had all but vanished from the earth also thought very hard about how to convey their values to the generations that would come after them. What, George Washington asked in his Eighth Annual Address, could be more important than to pass civic values down to \u201cthe future guardians of the liberties of the country\u201d? \u201cA people who mean to be their own Governors,\u201d James Madison echoed a few years later, \u201cmust arm themselves with the power which knowledge gives.\u201d His fears about what would happen to America if it neglected this crucial task sound oddly apposite today: \u201cA popular Government, without popular information, or the means of acquiring it, is but a Prologue to a Farce or a Tragedy; or, perhaps both.\u201d For the first centuries of the republic\u2019s existence, this emphasis on civic education shaped the country. Parents sought to raise tomorrow\u2019s citizens, competing with each other to see whose four-year-old could name more presidents. Schools across the US devoted ample time to teaching students \u201cHow a Bill Becomes a Law\u201d. Civic education in all its forms stood at the core of the American project \u2013 as it also did in, say, Britain, Germany and Scandinavia. Then, amid an era of unprecedented peace and prosperity, the idea that support for self-government had to be won anew with every passing generation started to fade. Today, it is all but extinct. Many conservative thinkers have suggested a simple remedy to these complex ills. As David Brooks put the point in a recent New York Times column, the history of western civilisation should be taught in a \u201cconfidently progressive\u201d manner: \u201cThere were certain great figures, like Socrates, Erasmus, Montesquieu and Rousseau, who helped fitfully propel the nations to higher reaches of the humanistic ideal.\u201d Brooks is right to emphasise the importance of civic education. But he is wrong to suggest that the future of civics should consist in quite so hagiographic an account of the past. For all of its flaws, there is, after all, an important kernel of truth to the critiques that parts of the academic left level against liberal democracy. Even though they aspired to universality, many Enlightenment thinkers wound up excluding large groups from moral consideration. Even though they have huge accomplishments to their name, many of the \u201cgreat men\u201d of history committed horrifying misdeeds. And even though the ideal of liberal democracy is very much worth defending, its current practice continues to tolerate some shameful injustices. Both the history of the Enlightenment and the reality of liberal democracy are complex. Any attempt to present them in uncritical terms is bound to run counter to the basic Enlightenment value of veracity, and to undermine the basic democratic principle of striving toward political equality. It is the recognition of these facts \u2013 as well as understandable anger at the blithe dismissal of them on large parts of the right \u2013 that makes it so tempting for many of today\u2019s journalists and academics to settle into a pose of pure and persistent critique. But an exclusive focus on today\u2019s injustices is no more intellectually honest than an unthinking exhortation of the greatness of western civilisation. To be true to its own ideals, civic education thus needs to feature both the real injustices and the great achievements of liberal democracy \u2013 and strive to make students as determined to rectify the former as they are to defend the latter. One integral part of this education should be an account of the reasons why the principles of liberal democracy retain a special appeal. Teachers and professors should spend much more time pointing out that ideological alternatives to liberal democracy, from fascism to communism, and from autocracy to theocracy, remain as repellent today as they have been in the past. And they should also be much more clear about the fact that the right response to hypocrisy is not to dismiss appealing principles that are often invoked insincerely but rather to work even harder for them to be put into practice at long last. As I argue in my new book, The People vs. Democracy, we will only be able to contain the rise of populism if we ensure that the political system overcomes the very real shortcomings that have fuelled it. Ordinary people have long felt that politicians don\u2019t listen to them when they make their decisions. They are sceptical for a reason: the rich and powerful really have had a worrying degree of influence over public policy for a very long time. The revolving door between lobbyists and legislators, the outsized role of private money in campaign finance, and the tight links between politics and industry really have undermined the degree to which the popular will steers public policy. All of this has had a large impact on the government\u2019s ability to deliver for ordinary people. After growing rapidly in the postwar era, the living standards of ordinary people have, in many North American and western European countries, been stagnating for decades. And the growing frustration about a lack of material progress has, in turn, helped to fuel a massive cultural backlash against the ideals of an equal, multi-ethnic society. These shortcomings can only be addressed through substantial reform. Institutions need to curb the influence of money on politics and find new ways to allow citizens to have a say. Politicians need to recover the will and the imagination to ensure that the fruits of globalisation and free trade are distributed much more equally. And citizens \u2013 which is to say all of us \u2013 need to work even harder to build an inclusive patriotism that protects vulnerable minorities against discrimination while emphasising what unites rather than what divides us. But the project of saving liberal democracy also calls for something more high-minded than wonkish reform. Populists have only been able to celebrate such astounding successes because the moral foundations of our system are far more brittle than we realised. And so anybody who seeks to make a contribution to revitalising democracy must first help to rebuild it on a more stable ideological footing. \u2022 Yascha Mounk is a lecturer on government at Harvard and the author of the new book The People vs. Democracy: Why Our Freedom is in Danger and How to Save It"
"22||The People vs Democracy review \u2013 blood, soil and Trump as strongman-liteLiberal democracy is having a bad decade, with no end in sight. According to Freedom House, a government-funded NGO, \u201cdemocracy is in crisis\u201d, stuck in retrograde since the middle of George W Bush\u2019s first term. A clear majority of Americans believe Donald Trump acts more like an autocrat than a traditional president, while a quarter of US millennials view free elections as non-essential. The US is regarded as a \u201cflawed\u201d democracy, lagging behind such countries as Malta, Uruguay, Spain and South Korea. Even before Trump and Brexit, the liberal order was losing its luster. Enter Yascha Mounk, a political theorist at Harvard. In his latest book, The People vs Democracy, Mounk focuses on the rise of illiberal democracy \u2013 that is the emergence of societies that elect their governments but which give short shrift to liberal norms such as a free press, due process, transparency, tolerance and civil liberties. Oban\u2019s Hungary, Modi\u2019s India and Erdo\u011fan\u2019s Turkey are leading members of this dubious club, according to Mounk. Mounk convincingly argues that democracy and liberalism are not synonymous and that in the face of uneven growth and a multicultural world, friction (or worse) between the two concepts is now almost predictable. The People vs Democracy delivers a clear-eyed take on how liberal democracy fell out of favor in swaths of the Anglosphere and elsewhere. Not surprisingly, Mounk is alarmed by the rise of populism and what he diagnoses as liberal democracy\u2019s fragility. He acknowledges that nationalism will be with us for the foreseeable future and posits the possibility that \u201ccitizens have built up loyalty to their political system because it kept the peace and swelled their pocketbooks, not because they hold a deep commitment to its most fundamental principles\u201d. Does he overstate? Only maybe. Over decades, political values become baked into the national DNA. In the US, they are embedded in the constitution and celebrated on 4 July. Yet those same conventions are being buffeted by sustained centrifugal forces. In Mounk\u2019s words, \u201cdemocracy is deconsolidating\u201d. On that note, the tropes of 2016 bore an eerie resemblance to some place other than the Land of the Free and the Home of the Brave. Chants of \u201clock her up\u201d and \u201cL\u00fcgenpresse\u201d, egged on by Trump and embraced by his minions, became campaign hallmarks. As if on cue, Republican politicians accepted Trump as strongman-lite. In a radio interview Paul LePage, Maine\u2019s governor, treated Trump\u2019s tropism toward authoritarianism as a political plus. In response to a questioner, LePage conflated the rule of law with law and order, and declared that \u201cour constitution is not only broken, but we need a Donald Trump to show some authoritarian power in our country\u201d. History does not necessarily repeat itself, but it can rhyme. Although Mounk is openly discomfited by nationalism, he is impressed by its potency and durability, calling it the \u201cmost defining political force of its time\u201d. He contends that in the 18th and 19th centuries, nationalism \u201cnearly always took the form of a hankering for ethnic purity as well as democracy\u201d. To be sure, the homogeneous impulse, a frequent component of nation-building, was a part of the American Genesis. In the drive to ratify the constitution, common ancestry and religion were enlisted, with English and Protestant the operative ties that bound. John Jay, the nation\u2019s first chief justice and an abolitionist, wrote of Americans being \u201ca people descended from the same ancestors, speaking the same language, professing the same religion\u201d. Alexander Hamilton was not the only voice; the debate still rages. An immigration proponent, Mounk observes that going back in time citizenship was usually restricted to a subset of the overall population. In ancient Athens, the status of citizen was limited to the offspring of two Athenian parents. By contrast, the Roman empire was more elastic in its approach, mindful that citizenship and ethnic sameness counted for less when an emperor occupied the throne. The People vs Democracy is conscious of how the west arrived at its current inflection point. In addition to listing the usual causes, Mounk writes that too much distance emerged between government and the governed. As an illustration he points to the European commission, an opaque and unelected bureaucracy that affects the lives of hundreds of millions. Mounk also casts a wary eye at tribalism. Like Columbia University\u2019s Mark Lilla, he rejects identity politics as antithetical to the \u201cpossibility of a truly open and multiethnic society\u201d. And therein lies the challenge for Mounk and proponents of modern-day liberal democracy: preserving democracy with its attendant checks and balances while protecting individual freedoms in the face of growing antagonisms. As expected, The People vs Democracy lists possible remedies to this malaise, including \u201cinclusive patriotism\u201d. Mounk\u2019s solutions will probably come up short as the haves and have-nots continue to move down separate paths, with the rich hiving off and the cognitive elites pairing off. Moreover, in the US reconciliation is further complicated by political affiliation becoming increasingly aligned with race and religion. These divides are organic if not intractable. Mounk is dead-on when he observes that candidates can no longer preach the virtues of the status quo when life is an unbridgeable moat to far too many. Citizens do not want to be sneered at as would-be vandals by their duly elected stewards. The world is no longer flat and, once again, blood and soil are relevant. Voters derided as \u201cdeplorables\u201d, that is those who came up short in the march toward globalization, will no longer tolerate being ignored. How liberalism and democracy eventually respond to this latest test is the critical but unanswered question."
"24||Home listening: Gerstein plays Gershwin; plus Denis Matsuev and lots of Bach\u2022 Whether in Tchaikovsky or Liszt, Brahms or Scriabin, the Russian-born pianist Kirill Gerstein has already made a name as a formidable technician and an independent-minded musician. It turns out he is also an ardent jazz player, having initally taught himself before, at the age of 14, going to study jazz piano in Boston. His mentors include vibraphonist Gary Burton, who makes a guest appearance on this album: Gershwin: Rhapsody in Blue and Concerto in F (Myrios), with the Saint Louis Symphony conducted by David Robertson. Including works by Earl Wild and Oscar Levant, the disc gives full rein to Gerstein\u2019s jazz talents in all their liquid, apparently effortless variety. The Rhapsody is heard in a live performance \u2013 full of fat, moody brass \u2013 of the jazz-band arrangement (orchestrated by Ferde Grof\u00e9). \u2022 Two earlier 20th-century works, the Piano Concertos No 2 of Rachmaninov and Prokofiev, feature in Valery Gergiev\u2019s latest live recording with the Mariinsky Orchestra (on the Mariinsky label), with Denis Matsuev as steely, passionate soloist. The Prokofiev crackles with energy, the Rachmaninov surges with heart-in-mouth emotion from start to electrifying finish. Gergiev keeps up the pace, with idiomatic playing \u2013 you would expect nothing less \u2013 from the orchestra: a great pairing if you haven\u2019t already got these concertos. \u2022 Varieties of Bach on BBC Radio iPlayer\u2026 It is his B minor Mass from Bath Abbey as part of the city\u2019s Bachfest, in a period instrument performance by the English Concert, the Erebus Ensemble and soloists, conducted by Harry Bicket. In contrast there\u2019s still time to hear the historically revealing Mendelssohn arrangement of Bach\u2019s St Matthew Passion, with Peter Dijkstra conducting the BBC Singers and St James\u2019s Baroque. Then sample the talents of two of Bach\u2019s sons, Carl Philipp Emanuel and Johann Christoph Friedrich, in symphonies performed by the OAE and the New Bach Collegium Musicum of Leipzig."
"21||Air taxis: we have lift-off\u2026Airbus Vahana Last month Airbus released a video of the first successful test flight of its electric vertical take-off and landing (eVTOL) autonomous drone. Although it only hovered in the air for 53 seconds, the fact that its eight rotors were powered entirely by electricity was a landmark for the manufacturer of gas-guzzling planes. The goal is that the technology could be used for airborne travel in congested cities. \u201cOur goal is to democratise personal flight by leveraging the latest technologies such as electric propulsion, energy storage and machine vision,\u201d blogged Zach Lovering, Vahana project executive. Ehang 184 Chinese drone manufacturer Ehang is considerably more advanced than Airbus. In February it flew 40 journalists and local dignitaries on trips of up to 15km in Guangzhou, southern China, reaching top speeds of 80mph. To fly, passengers simply mark their destination on a map and the drone creates and executes a flight plan. Ehang claims the craft is robust enough to withstand thunderstorms and typhoons \u2013 in the event of problems it can be piloted remotely from a control centre. Volocopter The German company behind this 18-rotor, two-person air taxi is backed by Daimler and recently struck a partnership deal with Intel. Their latest model, the 2X, is capable of 30 minutes of flight \u2013 designers are aiming for a full hour, which they think will be sufficient for typical shuttles across most major cities. Risk of crashing is diminished by nine battery packs \u2013 in the event of catastrophic failure a ballistic parachute will save the day. The craft are being tested in Dubai. Uber Elevate Uber is developing several air taxi concepts. Last November the taxi firm signed a deal with Nasa to develop on-demand, 200mph electric aircraft that would begin testing in gridlocked Los Angeles in 2020, with a view to having the service fully operational for the city\u2019s 2028 Olympics. Last month it announced a project with helicopter manufacturer Bell to begin flying air taxis in Fort Worth, Texas by 2023. Back in 2016 it published a 98-page white paper analysing the technical and regulatory hurdles that would have to be overcome before taxis become airborne. Lilium In April 2017 this Munich-based startup demonstrated the first unmanned flight of its two-seater prototype VTOL vertical take-off and landing jet. Powered by 36 electric jet engines, rather than rotors, the craft could reach speeds of 185mph. Lilium claims the 19-mile journey from New York\u2019s JFK airport to Manhattan would take five minutes in its air taxi compared with 55 minutes by car; it also says the fare would be around 50% less. Lilium hope to have the service operational by 2025."
"10||\u2018Tipping point\u2019: Americans organizing more than ever after Florida shootingAmericans outraged by their country\u2019s mass shooting epidemic appear to be organizing at an unprecedented rate, following the 14 February shooting at a high school in Parkland, Florida, in which 17 people were killed. The gun policy reform group Everytown for Gun Safety said a 25% leap in members in the two weeks after the Parkland shooting meant the group had overtaken the National Rifle Association in size \u2013 although the gun lobby\u2019s claim of 5 million members has not been independently verified and is widely seen as inflated. The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence has opened 16 chapters since the Parkland shootings, the group said. Sandy Hook Promise, an advocacy group founded after the 2012 elementary school shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, in which 20 young children and six adults were killed, has seen a wave of new signatories to its namesake vow. At least 20 corporations have changed their gun sales policies, by activists\u2019 count, including most recently LL Bean, which announced on Friday that it would no longer sell guns or ammunition to anyone under the age of 21. \u201cI think the Parkland shooting was the straw that broke the camel\u2019s back for most Americans to get off the sidelines,\u201d said Shannon Watts, founder of Moms Demand Action, the grassroots arm of Everytown for Gun Safety. \u201cI think the regurgitation by politicians of \u2018thoughts and prayers\u2019, once again without any action, was just too much for most Americans to bear. And I think that\u2019s why we\u2019re seeing this movement.\u201d Nicole Hockley, a co-founder of Sandy Hook Promise whose six-year-old son, Dylan, was killed at the school, said: \u201cThere\u2019s a lot of increased activity, because people are just fed up with school shootings continuing.\u201d Hockley credited student activists in Parkland with energizing the movement. \u201cI think there\u2019s a difference between parents like myself advocating for children who were killed, versus these kids advocating for themselves and asking adults to protect them,\u201d she said. \u201cThat it\u2019s the kids requesting and imploring for help has brought a new sense of urgency.\u201d A greater share of the public also appears to believe change is possible. A HuffPost/YouGov survey two weeks after the shooting found that 60% of Americans \u201cnow say that mass shootings are something that can be stopped, rather than a fact of life in the country \u2013 up 18 points from as recently as last October\u201d. Everytown and Moms Demand Action added 1.2 million supporters \u2013 \u201cpeople on our mailing list that donate or take action\u201d \u2013 since Parkland, bringing their total to 5.2 million, Watts said. \u201cWe also, the day after the Parkland shooting, started Students Demand Action,\u201d she said. \u201cWe already have 10,000 new volunteers signed up.\u201d The group has organized 600 events since the shooting and attendance at annual events is up tenfold, Watts said. \u201cLast year we had a state advocacy day at the Georgia statehouse,\u201d she said. \u201cWe had 150 people. And we just had it again last week \u2013 we have it every year \u2013 and 1,600 people showed up. So we\u2019re just seeing incredible turnout everywhere. \u201cWe built the machinery over the past five years that can accommodate all these new members. We have a chapter in every single state. It\u2019s a robust leadership system with volunteers, and each has a different role. That has enabled us to plug them in immediately. \u201cWe\u2019ve been creating this movement on the ground and now we can make sure we\u2019re accommodating this moment that has happened.\u201d Hockley said there was still room for a lot more. \u201cThere\u2019s a huge amount of potential,\u201d she said. \u201cWe\u2019re in all 50 states at the moment. But there\u2019s always a need for more penetration within those states. \u201cThe individual state legislation, and then at the federal level \u2013 considerable policy is still required for gun safety reform, mental health and wellness and funding. There\u2019s still a lot of room for growth in this movement.\u201d Hockley had just returned from the White House, where she met Donald Trump for a second \u201clistening meeting\u201d about gun violence in as many weeks. \u201cIt\u2019s easy to be cynical, and people can keep saying \u2018Nothing\u2019s going to happen\u2019 but then I think you fulfill your own prophecy,\u201d she said. \u201cIt\u2019s important to say, \u2018Hey, these conversations are happening.\u2019 We\u2019ve heard different options coming out from the White House, some of them are very good, some of them are not so good. \u201cBut the fact that there are multiple solutions being discussed, that is good in and of itself. The more that this turns from a fight into a conversation focused on solutions, the greater chance we have for progress.\u201d Watts declared a \u201ctipping point\u201d. \u201cIt\u2019s time for all Americans to get off the sidelines and to get involved in this issue and to make it a voting priority, and to remember in November which lawmakers are beholden to the NRA and to vote them out, throw them out,\u201d she said. \u201cThese movements take time. The NRA has a 30-year head start. It isn\u2019t going to happen overnight. It\u2019s going to take several election cycles.\u201d"
"10||America's costliest house: developer takes $500m gamble on Bel Air eyrieNiles Niami stands on the rooftop of the most expensive house in America, the latest property he has built for billionaires, and considers the best way to describe his design aesthetic. \u201cBadass,\u201d he grins. \u201cYeah. Badass.\u201d Sweeping in every direction is a panoramic view of Los Angeles and the Pacific Ocean. Beneath him is a gargantuan glass and marble residence with moats, four swimming pools, 20 bedrooms, a nightclub, a bowling alley, a cinema and walls and ceilings made of jellyfish aquariums. Price: $500m. From this hilltop eyrie in Bel Air, LA\u2019s plushest neighbourhood, other estates belonging to the likes of Jennifer Aniston and Elon Musk look puny in comparison. Niami has named this property, which is due to go on the market later this year, The One. Apt, he says, because there is no other like it. \u201cI don\u2019t think it\u2019s cheeky. I think it\u2019s true.\u201d The construction of this and other so-called giga-mansions underscores a new gilded age in the United States and especially in LA. Tech tycoons and other plutocrats are splashing fortunes for homes breaking records for scale, opulence and excess. The splurge comes amid a housing shortage that has fuelled a homelessness crisis, with 57,000 people without permanent shelter in LA county, a ragged army that pitches tents on sidewalks and sleeps in cars, doorways and on the beach. The Los Angeles Times columnist Steve Lopez compared the city\u2019s hilltop mansions to giant tombstones marking the death of humility. Niami, interviewed this week at The One and another property called Opus, shrugged off a question about inequality. \u201cYou\u2019re asking the wrong guy. I try to provide things that don\u2019t exist to buyers that can afford them.\u201d For him such properties embody audacity and success. \u201cAnyone who buys one of my homes is making a statement about who they are. These properties reflect LA living at its finest.\u201d The 50-year-old developer is a showman. He drives a Rolls-Royce and sports a Tom Ford jacket, $2,000 sunglasses and a pearly smile. \u201cBraces and veneers,\u201d he says, tapping a tooth. The Los Angeles native is self-made, the son of a single mother schoolteacher. \u201cThe house I grew up in was as big as some of my bathrooms now.\u201d He started out doing makeup for films and graduated to producing B movies, including a 1998 Steven Seagal flick called The Patriot. When films didn\u2019t make enough money he switched to real estate. His clients include the rapper Sean Combs, also known as Puff Daddy, and the Winklevoss twins, who minted Bitcoin fortunes. Niami\u2019s brashness has a touch of Del Boy, the wheeler-dealer in the British TV sitcom Only Fools and Horses whose motto was \u201cwho dares wins\u201d. \u201cWhen I do things I just do \u2019em,\u201d he says. \u201cWherever it lands, it lands. You only live once. There is no guarantee of anything in life.\u201d That includes finding buyers. The One, once finished later this year, may be a Xanadu fit for Kubla Khan but if Niami doesn\u2019t get a buyer he risks emulating Ozymandias, another figure from antiquity synonymous not with luxury but hubris and ruin. Niami is gambling that a billionaire \u2013 any billionaire - will find the opportunity irresistible. He bought the lot, which included a 10,000 sq ft house, for $28m in 2012. Six years and lots of bulldozers later a 105,000 sq ft behemoth fills the site. LA has since tightened building regulations so another home on this scale is unlikely. Size plus panoramic views and interior wonderland will, he hopes, fetch a price that eclipses the $137m paid for a pile in the Hamptons, a US record, and the $300m Saudi Arabia\u2019s crown prince reportedly paid for a French chateau, a world record. The promotional video is not subtle: a handsome fiftysomething man pulls up in a red Ferrari, strolls past glittering waterfalls and hosts a party where beautiful women throng his VIP booth. \u201cOne made for the one,\u201d says the tagline. Niami\u2019s clients tend to be single men who have made fortunes in tech, finance or oil and own multiple other properties. They apparently would disappoint F Scott Fitzgerald, who declared the rich a different breed. \u201cThey just have more cash. They\u2019re normal dudes, down to earth. I want to look bitchin\u2019 and cool but they don\u2019t care, they arrive in a Prius.\u201d He currently has four other properties at various stages of readiness in or close to Bel Air, Beverly Hills and Holmby Hills, a money zone realtors call the Platinum Triangle. He gave the Guardian a tour of the Opus, a 20,500 sq ft mansion on a cul-de-sac known as Billionaire\u2019s Row. It went on the market last year for $100m, including Damien Hirst paintings and a luxury car museum. No one bit so Niami excluded the art and the cars and recently dropped the price to $77.5m. A dream bachelor pad, says Niami. Televisions slide from the ceiling and spin 360 degrees. Instead of \u201ca pantry with tuna cans\u201d there is a Cristal champagne vault. There is a kitchen but he doesn\u2019t expect it to be used. \u201cAnyone living here will go out for dinner. Or maybe order from the chef in the catering kitchen downstairs.\u201d Niami is seeking investors for other projects in LA and New York. He has ruled out London, beyond financial sanity even for a badass. \u201cI\u2019d love to but it\u2019s too expensive.\u201d"
"14||What frightens the bosses of GKN and Carillion? CommitteesThis week will provide further evidence of MPs\u2019 willingness to involve themselves in how big companies are run. On Tuesday the business committee will scrutinise Melrose\u2019s proposed hostile takeover of GKN by questioning both companies\u2019 bosses. Melrose specialises in buying and overhauling industrial companies but Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, has labelled it an \u201casset stripper\u201d \u2013 something Melrose denies. On Wednesday, members of the business and work and pensions committees will interview former investors in Carillion, in the latest instalment of their joint inquiry into the outsourcing company\u2019s collapse. Last Friday, Rachel Reeves, who chairs the business committee, and Frank Field, her counterpart at work and pensions, accused Carillion\u2019s management of \u201cpervasive institutional failings\u201d that led to the company\u2019s bankruptcy. The accusation was the latest in a string of criticisms resulting from information extracted from the company and its advisers. Reeves said it was right for MPs to get involved because the fates of both companies had implications for public policy. \u201cGKN is a strategically important company in the economy and is involved in aerospace and the automotive industry, and it has contracts with the Ministry of Defence. They can be taken over and the government can have no influence over that \u2013 and that is different from the position in other countries,\u201d Reeves said. Carillion, whose biggest customer was the government, raised questions about corporate governance, the role of auditors and the protection of pensioners, suppliers, employees and taxpayers, Reeves said. MPs would ask the former Carillion investors why they short-sold or disposed of shares before the company revealed it was in trouble, she added. Reeves, who took over chairing the committee in September, has built on the committee\u2019s work in the last parliament when it forced Mike Ashley, the Sports Direct founder, to account for working practices at his company and Sir Philip Green to take responsibility for the plight of pensioners at his former business, BHS. Before combining forces to investigate Carillion, Reeves and Field worked together to shine a light on working practices at Uber and other gig-economy companies. Other committees are also holding companies to account \u2013 the Treasury committee has been a thorn in the side of Royal Bank of Scotland over its treatment of small business customers. Parliamentary committees used to be relatively weak, with narrow remits to hold government departments to account. But the introduction in 2010 of secret ballots for elected chairs, instead of whips doling out appointments, made committees more independent, with extra gravitas and a more detailed approach. High-profile recent chairs such as Andrew Tyrie at the Treasury committee and Margaret Hodge at the public accounts committee became grand inquisitors of bankers and tax-avoiding companies. Iain Wright, Reeves\u2019s predecessor at the business committee, put greater emphasis on working with other committees for maximum effect. As well as Reeves\u2019s and Field\u2019s committees, the Carillion investigation has involved the public accounts and public administration committees, with coordination by a more active liaison committee. Hannah White, director of research at the Institute for Government thinktank, said: \u201cCommittees are increasingly moving beyond their core remit of scrutinising government to look at how private companies behave in the policy context set by government. They have attracted significant media attention by doing this in a forensic way rather than grandstanding.\u201d Reeves said that MPs of all parties were becoming increasingly keen to scrutinise large companies, amid public concern about lack of accountability and a greater understanding of the role of big business after the financial crisis. \u201cSelect committees can give businesses the opportunity to get their voices heard \u2013 but the committee won\u2019t hesitate to call people in if we think they have got questions to answer. Businesses should take that opportunity to say what they are doing but they should expect difficult questions on behalf of our constituents and the people we represent,\u201d Reeves said."
"16||Jaguars killed for fangs to supply growing Chinese medicine tradeConservationists who have uncovered a growing illegal trade in jaguar fangs in South America are linking it to Chinese construction projects that could be threatening wildlife globally. Experts say major Chinese power plant, road and rail works in developing nations are key stimulants of illicit trade in the skins, bones and horns of endangered animals. Local people find out that Chinese construction workers have an interest in buying animal bones, horns and body parts for their supposed medical properties and an illicit trade is established. \u201cEssentially, these projects act like giant vacuum cleaners of wildlife that suck everything back to China,\u201d a conservation researcher, Vincent Nijman, of Oxford Brookes University, said last week. \u201cIt is a real worry.\u201d The problem in South America is of particular concern. More than 100 jaguars \u2013 a species whose numbers are dwindling \u2013 may have been killed in less than a year to supply a trade in their body parts with China. As tiger parts \u2013 which are prized by practitioners of Chinese traditional medicine \u2013 are becoming scarcer, so a market is opening up for organs from other big cats, including the jaguar. Two examples of jaguar deaths are given in the current issue of Nature. It reports that on Boxing Day last year, the body of a jaguar was found floating in a drainage canal in Belize in central America. \u201cIts body was mostly intact, but the head was missing its fangs,\u201d says the report. \u201cThen, on 10 January, a second cat \u2013 this time an ocelot that may have been mistaken for a young jaguar \u2013 turned up headless in the same channel.\u201d The extent of the trade was also highlighted by Tha\u00eds Morcatty, a wildlife researcher based at Oxford Brookes University who has worked in South America. \u201cLast year, there were more than 50 seizures of packages that contained jaguar parts in Brazil. Most of them appear to have been destined for Asia and China in particular. It is also worth noting there are major Chinese communities in Brazil,\u201d she added. Jaguars once roamed across much of the southern US, central America and South America. Today their numbers have been drastically reduced because of deforestation and by farmers shooting animals that attack their livestock. The prospect of them being used to supplement Chinese traditional medicine now threatens to reduce their numbers even further. However, it is the global threat posed by this sort of trade that worries conservationists. For years, Chinese companies have been setting up vast construction project deals with more than 60 countries to construct ports, power stations, rail lines, roads, tunnels and bridges in the developing world. Examples include a $5.8bn power planet in Nigeria, an 835-mile-long railway in Angola and a six-lane, 680-metre-long bridge in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. \u201cThese projects are manned by Chinese workers and they go back and forth with local people and also send things back to their families in China,\u201d said Nijman. \u201cAmong the things they send back are illicit bones, horns and skin valued by traditional medicine. There is not much sign of them using restraint. At the end of the day, almost anything that can be killed and traded will be.\u201d"
"22||How to Fix the Future: Staying Human in the Digital Age by \r\nAndrew Keen \u2013 reviewMany years ago the cultural critic Neil Postman predicted that the future of humanity lay somewhere in the area between the dystopian nightmares of two English writers \u2013 George Orwell and Aldous Huxley. Orwell believed that we would be destroyed by the things we fear \u2013 surveillance and thought-control; Huxley thought that our undoing would be the things that delight us \u2013 that our rulers would twig that entertainment is more efficient than coercion as a means of social control. Then we invented the internet, a technology that \u2013 it turned out \u2013 gave us both nightmares at once: comprehensive surveillance by states and corporations on the one hand; and, on the other, a strange kind of passive addiction to devices, apps and services which, like the drug soma in Huxley\u2019s Brave New World, possess \u201call the advantages of Christianity and alcohol and none of their defects\u201d. The great irony, of course, is that not all of this was inevitable. Granted, the technology always had an intrinsic capacity for surveillance because of the way it works. But it also had the great emancipatory, democratising potential celebrated by the legal scholar Yochai Benkler in his landmark 2006 book, The Wealth of Networks. But that potential has, for the most part, not been realised. What has happened instead is that the internet has been captured by a small number of American companies, which are amplifying inequality (creating unimaginable wealth for their owners while employing very few people), polluting the public sphere and undermining democracy. And the same outfits are now racing ahead to enhance the artificial intelligence technology that will entrench their dominance. Confronted with this challenge, our societies seem like rabbits caught in the headlights of a truck. True, our legislators are belatedly waking up to the scale of the problem, but at the moment their responses seem either banal (see Theresa May\u2019s bleating about social media) or self-defeating (Germany\u2019s outsourcing of decisions about what should be published, or censored, to Facebook and Twitter). The intellectual bankruptcy of these reactions suggests that our leaders have not yet understood the scale of the revolution under way, which is also why they have no idea what to do about it \u2013 and why so much commentary about our digital future has a dystopian air. Into this maelstrom steps Andrew Keen, a tech commentator who never drank the Silicon Valley Kool-Aid. In three earlier books \u2013 The Cult of the Amateur, Digital Vertigo and The Internet Is Not the Answer \u2013 he provided an ongoing, scathing critique of tech evangelism. His scepticism now looks prescient: he understood the significance of what was happening earlier than most. With his new book, Keen switches from sarcasm to a kind of pragmatic optimism. Our digital future can be shaped in more humane directions, he argues. But for that to happen we need to be realistic about the scale of the challenge, to learn from history and accept that there are no magic bullets or technological fixes. Like Churchill, he offers mostly blood, sweat and tears; but at least he has a programme of what needs to be done. A key plank in this platform is that the dominant digital technologies of the future must not be proprietary, but open. And there must be real competition in digital markets. This means that governments have to update antitrust laws for a digital age in which winner-takes-all outcomes are routine, and enforce them rigorously. Monopolistic abuses should be prosecuted and punished. Mergers and acquisitions that were once waved through (Google\u2019s acquisition of DoubleClick, for example, or Facebook\u2019s of WhatsApp) should be scrutinised sceptically. Competition lawyers should be crawling all over the hidden, high-speed ad-trading markets operated by Google and Facebook. And so on. Second, we need to protect the public sphere on which all democracies depend. Facebook and Twitter \u2013 and, in some areas, Google \u2013 should be treated and regulated like the media companies they have become. The era when we were suspicious of Rupert Murdoch but indulgent towards Mark Zuckerberg is over. Tech companies should be held responsible for the harms they do. And citizens \u2013 the users of tech services \u2013 should also examine their consciences. If you care about how musicians are rewarded, for example, should you be subscribing to Spotify? And should Facebook and YouTube users be supporting automated platforms that facilitate the dissemination of Russian, white-supremacist, racist, sexist or terrorist propaganda? We also need to rethink our education systems to teach kids about the stuff that machines will never be able to do, and to start planning a new social security system that will provide a safety net for all the people whose lives will be disrupted by automation. If we don\u2019t, all the wealth that accrues from the productivity gains will go not to communities but to the companies that own the machines. If that happens, social cohesion will erode, with political consequences that are easy to foresee. The obvious implication is that tech companies will have to be taxed appropriately, and forced to pay taxes in the jurisdictions in which their profits are earned. None of these ideas is new, though many of them are regarded as unthinkable. But the history of society\u2019s responses to the abuses of earlier industrial eras suggests that appropriate remedies have always been regarded as unthinkable \u2013 until reforms were implemented. It\u2019s not all that long ago, after all, that we used to send small boys up chimneys, or that arsenic was available from street-corner apothecaries. Which is why it makes sense, as Keen seeks to do, to take the long view of our current dilemmas. He makes good use, for example, of Karl Polanyi\u2019s writings on the social and political upheavals that took place in England during the rise of the market economy. We like to think that our current problems are unique, but societies have always been confronted by the challenges of disruptive technology. And in that context, history has some useful lessons for us. One is that those challenges can be met or ameliorated. The other is that sensible government is the key to making things better. In which case, we\u2019re not out of the woods yet. \u2022 How to Fix the Future by Andrew Keen is published by Atlantic Books (\u00a320). To order a copy for \u00a317 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"5||The week in radio and podcasts: Homo Sapiens; You\u2019re Doing it Wrong; UnpoppedHomo Sapiens | podcast You\u2019re Doing It Wrong (Radio 4) | iPlayer Unpopped | BBC podcasts Homo Sapiens, Will Young and Chris Sweeney\u2019s podcast, is back, back, back for a second series, and very welcome it is too. Though it bills itself as an LGBTQ+ version of Woman\u2019s Hour, Homo Sapiens is much jollier and funnier than that sounds, plus \u2013 result! \u2013 there\u2019s no dodgy 15-minute drama tagged on the end. (Actually, in last week\u2019s episode, Young and Sweeney mentioned that they\u2019ve recently been on Woman\u2019s Hour and that Young had met Jenni Murray before. \u201cShe was different to when I\u2019d met her,\u201d he said, \u201cbecause we were at an event and she was\u2026 \u201d \u201cDrunk?\u201d inquired Sweeney, sweetly. Well, it made me laugh.) Anyhow, for their new series, our two hosts have become more intrepid, venturing out of their cosy north London kitchens to visit interesting interviewees across the country. We are promised chats with Alan Cumming, Skin from Skunk Anansie and Johann Hari in the coming weeks, but for last week\u2019s opener, the lads landed the big JC. Not Jesus, not Jarvis, but Jeremy Corbyn. They were inordinately pleased about this, and even for those of us with reservations about the Labour leader, the interview was a delight, covering gay rights and mental health issues, as well as Corbyn\u2019s childhood, his jam-making techniques and how to maintain a compost heap. \u201cDo you turn your compost?\u201d asked Corbyn. \u201cDo you water your heap?\u201d Young: \u201cI wee on it.\u201d Anyhow, engaging as this interview was, I must say I enjoyed the preliminary chat between Young and Sweeney even more. Their quips and teasing, their double double entendres (quadruple?) make for lively, giggly listening. They have great bantz, for want of a better expression. And this week\u2019s episode, with Jack Monroe, was similar. Daft, funny chat (top marks for Young\u2019s anecdote about talking his way into a lift with the Chelsea football team), followed by their interview with Monroe, in which they managed to discuss her being libelled by Katie Hopkins on Twitter without ever mentioning Hopkins\u2019s name \u2013 quite the achievement. Homo Sapiens was lovely last season, but this season it\u2019s upped its game even more. You feel that Young and Sweeney could podcast their way along a bus journey now they\u2019ve become so accomplished. Another podcaster supreme is Adam Buxton, whose self-made interview show is required listening for many people. No wonder the BBC has tempted him back for a new series of short programmes called You\u2019re Doing It Wrong \u2013 a title so Buxton it made me smile before it even began. The first episode was about work. Buxton interviewed a \u201chappiness consultant\u201d (\u201cI\u2019m a misery technician,\u201d he said in an aside). The consultant tried to describe a modern workplace: \u201cFuzzy smiles\u2026 Instagram-happy\u2026\u201d; \u201cBall pit?\u201d said Buxton. \u201cYes,\u201d she said, \u201cbut I think, let\u2019s get deeper\u2026\u201d \u201cDeeper ball pit?\u201d inquired Buxton. He is so good. He even managed to make some thought-provoking points about work among his jokes. Just room to mention BBC podcast Unpopped, in which host Hayley Campbell unpicks pop cultural moments with the help of experts. Like In Our Time, but actually about our time. Campbell is good, and the show is interesting, but the listener enjoyment factor varies according to the speakers. Put Juno Dawson on every week, then everything will be fine. Women in love\u2026 three of the best lesbian podcasts Dyking Out podchaser.com Two American comedians, Carolyn Bergier and Sarah York, plus a guest, bash swiftly through news, pop culture, and lesbian and queer life in general. Upbeat and witty, Dyking Out takes the form of most matey podcasts: lots of chat and silliness, a little too much talking over the top of each other and much laughter. Episodes cover topics as varied as \u201cproblematic gay men\u201d, \u201cdating straight women\u201d and \u201cpets\u201d, all pulled apart in a discursive, interested and interesting manner. Alice Isn\u2019t Dead Night Vale presents From the producers of the amazing Night Vale, this excellent drama series is properly spooky. A truck driver searches across America for the wife she thought was dead. Intimately broadcast, gorgeously written, beautifully made, every detail is thought through \u2013 and there are a nice lot of episodes to binge on. If scary fiction is your thing, then try Mabel too, where a carer starts to explore a family house in a story told via phone calls, recorded messages and weird cut-ins. The Lesbian Historic Motif Podcast thelesbiantalkshow.com A spinoff from the The Lesbian Talk Show, this is stuffed with bookish information, delivered like a talk from a well-informed lecturer. Every month there\u2019s an interview with an author of historic fiction that features queer women, another show where the author talks about books they like, one about a woman from history whose lesbianism is not usually acknowledged, and one about the podcast\u2019s ongoing research project. You need to focus but, god, you learn a lot."
"12||What price privacy when Apple gets into bed with China?Here\u2019s your starter for 10. Question: Apple\u2019s website contains the following bold declaration: \u201cAt Apple we believe privacy is a fundamental human right.\u201d What ancient English adage does this bring to mind? Answer: \u201cFine words butter no parsnips.\u201d In other words, what matters is not what you say, but what you do. What brings this to mind is the announcement that from now on, iCloud data generated by Apple users with a mainland Chinese account will be stored and managed by a Chinese data management firm \u2013 Guizhou-Cloud Big Data (GCBD). \u201cWith effect from 28 February 2018,\u201d the notice reads, \u201ciCloud services associated with your Apple ID will be operated by GCBD. Use of these services and all the data you store with iCloud \u2013 including photos, videos, documents and backups \u2013 will be subject to the terms and conditions of iCloud operated by GCBD.\u201d The new terms and conditions for Apple users in China contain a clause. \u201cIf you understand and agree,\u201d it reads, \u201cApple and GCBD have the right to access your data stored on its servers. This includes permission sharing, exchange and disclosure of all user data (including content) according to the application of the law.\u201d So what\u2019s behind this change? Well, basically, Apple is moving the personal data and content of its mainland Chinese users to a place inside the country\u2019s borders to comply with China\u2019s sweeping new cybersecurity law which requires foreign companies to store all of the data they generate from China inside China\u2019s borders. Henceforth, cloud services in China have to be operated by Chinese companies, so foreign outfits must either lease servers in China or establish joint ventures with local partners. Apple has chosen the latter option, which, it says, \u201cwill allow us to improve the speed and reliability of our iCloud services products while also complying with newly passed regulations that cloud services be operated by Chinese companies.\u201d That guff about improving \u201cthe speed and reliability of our iCloud services\u201d is the usual corporate cant designed to conceal a harsh reality \u2013 which is that henceforth everything that Chinese Apple users store in the cloud will be accessible to the Chinese state. And although the data is encrypted, Apple will, apparently, have to store the encryption keys in China \u2013 which means that its joint venture will have to comply with the cybersecurity law and provide them to the Chinese authorities if required. As Amnesty International points out, \u201cChinese police enjoy sweeping discretion and use broad and ambiguously constructed laws and regulations to silence dissent, restrict or censor information and harass and prosecute human rights defenders and others in the name of \u2018national security\u2019 and other purported criminal offences.\u201d So what\u2019s new? In one sense, nothing: we\u2019ve known for ages that there are no bargains that western tech companies will not make with an authoritarian state in order to gain access to the fastest-growing market in the world. But until now, Apple has laid claim to the moral high ground in this area \u2013 as witnessed not only by the aforementioned website declaration about privacy as a human right, but also by its principled stand in 2016 against the demands of the FBI to unlock the iPhone of the San Bernardino shooter. Cynics used to point out that this kind of high-mindedness came cheap for Apple, since the company made its money by selling expensive hardware at premium prices. It didn\u2019t sully itself with the \u201csurveillance capitalism\u201d practised by Google and Facebook, which depended on exploiting the data of its users in return for the provision of \u201cfree\u201d services. That was indeed true in earlier times. But Apple has discovered over the last decade that \u201cservices\u201d (apps, music, videos, photos) are also a hugely lucrative business line. In fact, if its services business were a separate company, it would already be in the Fortune 100. And iCloud is the indispensable enabler of that business \u2013 which means that Apple is now into cloud computing and user data-hosting in a big way. Hence the servile cringe of the February 28 announcement. Corporations can blather on all they like about corporate responsibility and human rights, but, in the end, maximising shareholder value is all that counts. And Apple is determined to get to that trillion-dollar valuation no matter what. So if you\u2019re an Apple user in China, you now have a simple choice: junk your iPhone, iPad and fancy Macbook laptop; or accept that your autocratic rulers can access your data at their convenience. In which case, whatever you say, say nothing \u2013 as they used to say in Belfast. What I\u2019m reading John Naughton\u2019s recommendations It works for them\u2026 When you look inside Facebook as an advertiser you see immediately why it\u2019s amazingly attractive for political campaigners. This Wired story provides a riveting insight into how Facebook\u2019s targeted advertising machine works \u2013 by one of the guys who built it. Stunning, sobering, illuminating. What\u2019s up, .doc? Why shouldn\u2019t you use Microsoft Word for confidential documents? Ask Paul Manafort, who is being prosecuted by Robert Mueller using evidence that arose because he didn\u2019t know how to create PDF documents from Word originals. Great story on Slate. In it for the long haul Most of the stuff we read about self-driving cars or autonomous vehicles is useless because it ignores the real-world hurdles that have to be surmounted before the cars become commonplace. But in areas like long-distance freight haulage, the potential is greater and it\u2019s where we\u2019re likely to see real applications of the technology sooner (though not in the UK). This analysis \u2013 from Uber\u2019s research division if you please! \u2013 on the prospects for long-haul trucking is refreshingly sanguine about the threats and opportunities ahead."
"28||Flipping magic: on the turtle trail in BarbadosTwilight. We\u2019re having dinner, and staring into the sea when the black shadow of a stingray passes through the water in front of the hotel where we\u2019re eating. There\u2019s something sinister about the stingray\u2019s passage: like watching the cape of Count Dracula. Several people get up from their tables to peer at it. Then we go back to our food \u2013 and that\u2019s when I get the text. This informs us that turtle hatchlings are about to be released, just down the coast. We tell the waiter, who kindly allows us to split our dinner. (Perhaps the hotel, Cobblers Cove, with a turtle-nesting site of its own, is accustomed to this kind of eccentricity.) Determined to come back soon for pudding, we finish our main course and dash off. Some time later, we\u2019re stumbling in darkness on a stretch of deserted sand. It\u2019s our last night on the island, and we\u2019ve been waiting for this moment since we arrived. Let\u2019s go back a bit \u2026 to the evening we met Carla Daniel. The director of public awareness and education at the Barbados Sea Turtle Project (BSTP) is on a bench beside KFC at the edge of Bridgetown, preparing us for a night-walk. She spreads a leaflet on the table. \u201cThis is the hawksbill turtle,\u201d she says. Once, there were masses of hawksbills on Barbados. Early sailors from Europe had to walk over turtles to reach land. But numbers declined fast, what with the trade in tortoiseshell and turtle meat. And in the last five generations, they\u2019re down 90%. Hawksbill turtles return to nest on the beach where they were born and, for many, that means returning to a beach that has changed dramatically, full of new hotels and restaurants. Barbados is developing fast \u2013 and trying to protect wildlife at the same time. \u201cTurtles lay batches of about 150 eggs 50cm below the surface,\u201d says Carla. When hatchlings appear, they face a mortal challenge just to get to the ocean: they go the wrong way, confused by artificial light, and get run over on the coastal road; they fall into holes they can\u2019t climb out of, and die of thirst; crabs intercept their journey and take chunks out of them; or rats, which like to turn hatchlings over and feast on their soft undersides. Some do make it to the sea \u2026 only to become a tasty snack for passing fish. But a few escape this last challenge, and paddle with their teeny-tiny flippers to distant fields of floating Sargassum seaweed that forms a key part of their diet. Here, they might also munch on particles of plastic that block up their digestive tracks and kill them. But still some of them survive \u2013 about one in every 1,000 hatchlings. And after more than two decades, sexually mature, they travel back to the beach where they were born to lay their eggs. Carla and her volunteers provide a 24-hour sea turtle hotline. At night, they form groups patrolling the shoreline looking for turtle activity, making sure the nesting turtles are safe, counting eggs and shepherding babies to the relative safety of the sea. Thanks to the BSTP, turtle numbers are rising again. Our walk starts at 8.30pm. By midnight, we\u2019ve seen nothing. Exhausted, we make our way back to the car. Our turtle mission is a washout. We pop into a petrol station to buy some water. Carla rushes in. There\u2019s been a sighting! Two turtles on the beach. \u201cFollow me,\u201d she says. We drive fast, take a sharp left then turn our headlights off and crawl down a track towards the beach. Beneath a coconut tree, we see the great dome of a female hawksbill turning circles as she digs sand with her vast hind flippers. A few yards away, another is doing the same. You probably won\u2019t see this if you visit Barbados in high season because hawksbill turtles prefer to nest between mid-May and late October. Peak season for turtles is low-season for tourists. But, of course, there are many other reasons to visit Barbados in low season. The beaches are half-empty and there\u2019s a calmer vibe, whether you\u2019re at the tropical Hunte\u2019s Gardens, walking wild Cattlewash beach, touring the Unesco world heritage site of old Bridgetown, or partying at Oistins, the Friday night fish-fry. Then there\u2019s Crop Over, the harvest festival that brings together locals and tourists with lively events in June, July and August. Last year, Rihanna made an internet-breaking appearance in full-carnival dress. Fast forward to our final day and that dash from dinner in search of hatchlings. In the darkness, we meet Lorenzo and Peter, BSTP volunteers. They point to a bucket containing 64 tiny turtles. Peter had a call in the early hours to say they were emerging at the most hazardous time of day. The hatchlings scrabble inside the bucket like clockwork toys. But Peter says they spent most of the day sleeping. When it happens, the release is over fast. Peter turns over the bucket and the creatures shuffle towards the shoreline. Some go the wrong way, to the coastal road, others wander around in circles. I\u2019m terrified that I\u2019ll stand on one. Peter uses his red light to guide them. And within 10 minutes, most are safely carried off by the waves. Except for one. A bit confused, this one. My daughter calls him Archie. With a bit of care, and gentle nudging, he finally makes it to the water \u2013 only to be knocked back again by a wave. Then another. Peter gets into the water with his torch. Another wave comes, and finally Archie is carried off. The volunteers pack up, to continue their all-night patrols. We say goodbye, then return to Cobblers Cove for our pudding. Way to go Cobblers Cove has doubles from \u00a3278 B&amp;B, including watersports and boat trips to swim with turtles. Bougainvillea Beach Resort has doubles from \u00a3124 a nigh. British Airways flies to Barbados from Gatwick from \u00a3496 return. For more information on turtle rescue, go to barbadosseaturtles.org More places to be a turtle volunteer Sri Lanka Go on a night patrol on the sandy shores of Sri Lanka with the Kosgoda Sea Turtle Conservation Project, which has been monitoring sea turtle activity and conserving local nesting sites since 1988. Their work has been more challenging since the effects of the tsunami in 2004 and they welcome volunteers to help out with their most common species, the green sea turtle. Hatching season November to May Turkey Cirali is a small resort 90 minutes away from Antalya with 3.5km of unspoilt beach surrounded by mountains and orange groves. More like a remote and undiscovered gem in Thailand, the resort is low-key with very little development. You can stay in the Hotel Azur, where 20 wooden cabins are set in gardens of citrus trees and hibiscus. At night, if you\u2019re lucky, you will get a chance to spot baby sea turtles taking their first steps from their nests to the sea, with a guide from the Ulupinar Conservation Co-op \u2013 a local organisation that helps to protect the turtle nests. Hatching season May to September Thailand Koh Phra Thong island, in the Andaman Sea off Thailand\u2019s west coast, is an unspoilt paradise with 16km of empty, golden beaches. For the past 20 years it has also been home to the Phra Thong turtle conservation project, which protects three different species of marine turtles including the world\u2019s largest, the 700kg leatherback. Responsible Travel organises tailor-made stays on the island where you can help and contribute to an international study into turtle behaviour and nesting patterns. Hatching season November to February"
"24||Joan Baez: Whistle Down the Wind review \u2013 a graceful farewellThere is a disconnect between the cover of Joan Baez\u2019s 25th studio album, showing the 77-year-old folk queen beaming and radiant, and its 10 songs about mortality and war. Baez is a more playful character than is often painted (she is a wicked mimic of her ex, Bob Dylan), but her calling card has always been gravitas: earnest peace anthems, fearless campaigning in line with her Quaker background, not much in the way of personal candour. On what she has declared her final record, she finds a just balance between private and public personae through a set of well-chosen cover versions ably, if austerely, produced by Joe Henry; picked guitars, thrumming bass, dabs of percussion, the odd wailing saw. The years have added grain and intimacy to Baez\u2019s magisterial voice, especially on songs centred on retrospection, regret and mortality. She finds the tenderness beneath Tom Waits\u2019s gravel-voiced title track (\u201cCan\u2019t stay here and I\u2019m scared to leave\u201d) and Last Leaf, and the forgiveness in Mary Chapin Carpenter\u2019s The Things That We Are Made Of. The President Sang Amazing Grace, Zoe Mulford\u2019s account of the 2015 Charleston church shooting, hits a sweet spot, while the folk standard I Wish the Wars Were All Over concludes in simple, utopian style. A graceful bow-out."
"14||With more efficient homes, the UK would never fear running short of gasCarry on cooking as normal, the energy minister said. This is how the market works, said industry experts, as the wholesale price of gas rocketed 200% in the wake of National Grid\u2019s warning on Thursday that the country was facing a gas shortfall. In other words, don\u2019t panic, nothing to see here. To an extent, they\u2019re right. In the short term the UK was fine, despite huge demand fuelled by cold weather coinciding with a series of interruptions to supply. No domestic gas supplies were cut off and neither was National Grid forced to ask industrial users to stop using gas. Unions and energy-intensive companies have used the episode to call for an urgent re-evaluation of the UK\u2019s gas storage capacity, given that 70% of it was lost with the closure last year of the ageing Rough facility in the North Sea. But a new facility would cost up to \u00a32bn, and industry watchers say the economics of building one don\u2019t stack up. Moreover, energy minister Claire Perry made it unequivocally clear that taxpayers\u2019 money won\u2019t be used to make the numbers work. \u201cGovernment has no plans to directly support an increase in UK-based gas storage,\u201d she said last week, insisting that there was enough flexibility available through ships and pipelines. So what next? We don\u2019t need a kneejerk response to an event that had little impact beyond the energy markets. But last week\u2019s events should kickstart a national conversation about how the UK keeps warm and tackles climate change. Successive ministers and officials have kicked the issue of how to decarbonise heating down the road. That\u2019s partly because it has not yet become entirely clear which technological approach is best, be it electrification of heating, the use of greener gases such as hydrogen, district heating schemes, or some combination of all three. It\u2019s also partly because, at a time when the debate about energy is fixated on the cost to consumers, no minister wants to stand up and be honest with billpayers \u2013 telling them they will need to cough up for a new hydrogen boiler in a decade\u2019s time. One thing last week has clarified, though, is that shifting most of our heating needs off gas and on to electricity through low-carbon options such as heat pumps \u2013 which the government was weighing up just five years ago \u2013 now looks increasingly fanciful. Gas normally provides around half of the UK\u2019s electricity but this week has regularly dropped back to around a quarter, due to the demand for heating. The gap has been filled partly by windfarms but also by coal plants, which won\u2019t be there in 2025 because the government is rightly phasing them out. Electrifying heating also looks almost impossibly hard to do at the same time as electric cars begin to have an impact on demand. Experts think the cars will begin to really take off in the 2020s and make a tangible difference to electricity demand, just when we would need to be greening our heating system. For a national solution, we are left with greener gas options, such as hydrogen produced with carbon capture, or biomethane produced from food waste plants. But it\u2019s early days for such technologies, and big decisions will need to be taken on infrastructure. While a serious conversation starts on the longer term, there is a short-term solution that is affordable and should leave no regrets. When the last government scrapped its green deal insulation scheme and regulations for new homes to be zero carbon, it said it would work up a new plan. That was three years ago. There is still no proper, ambitious policy on energy efficiency \u2013 a situation that not only looks socially unjust, because the poor spend more of their income on energy than the rich, but looks bad for energy security. Unlike many in government, the recently promoted Perry \u201cgets\u201d energy efficiency. She put new insulation targets for 2035 in the UK\u2019s climate-change masterplan last year. The minister should use last week\u2019s gas furore to cook up some serious action on efficiency now. Amazon isn\u2019t solely to blame for UK\u2019s retail chill The worst week for the retailing sector in years? Quite possibly. The UK end of Toys R Us went into administration. So did Maplin. Carpetright warned on profits for the third time in four months. New Look said it wanted its landlords to cut store rents by 60% as part of a rescue plan. Mothercare, with its share price down by two-thirds since the start of the year, said it expected to breach borrowing covenants and may seek fresh funds. Blame Amazon and the internet brigade? Or is this the knock-on effects of the post-referendum fall in sterling, with consumers now feeling the squeeze? Well, both factors are plainly present and important. But they are not the whole story. First, there are always losers in retailing. If there weren\u2019t, C&amp;A, Do It All and Woolworths would still be on our high streets. In the case of Toys R Us, there was general amazement that the chain had lasted so long. The stores look as if they belong in the 1990s, and even with Amazon taking a chunk of the toy market, rival chains such as Smyths and The Entertainer have prospered. Second, some of these companies don\u2019t help themselves by attempting to carry enormous debts. Toys R Us, Maplin and New Look all have private equity owners with an appetite for financial leverage. Maplin reportedly paid \u00a312m of interest last year on a \u00a363m loan from Rutland Partners at a rate of 15%. And was it sensible for New Look\u2019s owners to load up with debt when the competition includes Primark, owned by Associated British Foods, one of the UK\u2019s most conservatively funded, long-termist companies? Meaningful investment at Toys R Us in the UK was impossible while the US parent was carrying $5bn of debt. Third, there are inflexible property costs and business rates, which don\u2019t hit internet rivals to the same degree. On property, high street retailers know what they have to do: shorten their leases so they are able to close outlets sooner or negotiate better deals with landlords. On business rates, they can redouble their lobbying of government. And here they\u2019ve got a good case: this industry could do with some help. Wising up to the perils of cryptocurrency Bank of England governor Mark Carney is anxious and yet also relaxed about the popularity of bitcoin and cryptocurrencies in general. In a speech last week he revealed that his anxieties about the sector stem from a fear of criminals hiding their ill-gotten gains in bitcoin. There is also the prospect of unsophisticated investors becoming swept up in a mania that destroys some or all of their savings. He is, at the same time, relaxed about the situation as long as the number of people involved, and the sums of money invested, remain small relative to the vast resources of the global financial system. And that is why he won\u2019t be making a fuss at about it on the international committee he chairs \u2013 the Financial Stability Board \u2013 and currently sees no need to introduce draconian global restrictions. Nonetheless, it was interesting that only two days before Carney said bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin and others were having enough impact for some special rules to apply, his opposite number in New York was saying much the same thing. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) confirmed that it had been firing out legal warning letters to firms and individuals connected to new coin offers that might not be legal. It is understood that almost $9bn has been raised in the US to support rivals to bitcoin, and the fear is that many may be fictional and therefore without value. The SEC\u2019s chair, Jay Clayton, told Congress last month that regulation of cryptocurrency exchanges was an urgent matter. \u201cWe are supportive of regulatory and policy efforts to bring clarity and fairness to this space,\u201d he said, which is code for a full-frontal attack on what has become the new frontier \u2013 or, to some, the wild west \u2013 in financial services. This intervention, while it might not be coordinated, shows that the chief regulators of the world\u2019s largest financial centres are manifesting a welcome concern; fresh regulations for cryptocurrencies are the next step."
"20||All Too Human review \u2013 flesh in the game of British paintingIn 1945, as the war was ending, Francis Bacon, then 35, made a painting he called Figure in a Landscape. Details of a seated man in a flannel suit, thought to be Bacon\u2019s then lover, Eric Hall, struggle to emerge from the centre of the picture, out of a tunnelled blackness, but they don\u2019t resolve into a human form. There is, too, the spectre of a yawning mouth in the picture, a toothy vacancy that prefigures Bacon\u2019s famous screaming popes \u2013 but the whole refuses to quite add up. Instead, it returns the viewer to an unsettling no man\u2019s land of tangled pipework and indistinct hedging or bracken, mostly in an arid khaki but with traces of blood red. Bacon, who was only starting to paint in earnest, seems to be wrestling with the idea of whether it is still possible to depict a human figure with any confidence at all. The full extent of the Holocaust was just then filtering into British newspapers, after the liberation of the camps; London remained a bomb site; violent abstraction was more than a temptation. Bacon, as much as anyone at that moment, wanted to find how a postwar British art might connect to what had gone before. In this thrilling and thoughtful exhibition, the way certain British painters maintained their fidelity to the human figure, while all about them were losing faith, is at the heart of everything. Curator Elena Crippa has placed Bacon\u2019s 1945 painting like a starter\u2019s pistol to what follows. It is in a room of the painter\u2019s work which has as its centrepiece one of Giacometti\u2019s spindly bronze figures, from 1956, both upright and insubstantial, the shape of things to come. The Swiss sculptor, with his insistence on the human form, however diminished, was Bacon\u2019s great inspiration. His life mask of William Blake and his first contorted animal studies, a dog chasing its tail, a yowling fanged baboon, face that insistent human figure as if it is a totem, or circle it as if in a bacchanal. In some ways all of the work chosen here has a stake in that room. It is prefaced by a judicious selection of what had come before: David Bomberg\u2019s layered acts of attention, Stanley Spencer\u2019s curiously estranging Cookham realism, the charnel house butcher\u2019s windows of Chaim Soutine and the lovingly deconstructed brushwork of Walter Sickert\u2019s shadowy nudes. In this proximity you can almost sense Bacon re-examining those models and determining what in 1945 was now honest and possible. And then, in turn, as the exhibition and the century develops, Bacon\u2019s dissolving figures are challenged by other strategies \u2013 new hard-won approaches to the oldest artistic relationship of all, that between painter and model. Crippa takes the name for her show from Friedrich Nietzche\u2019s book of aphorisms, a T-shirt slogan for existentialists: \u201cEverywhere he looked\u2026 what he saw was not only far from divine but all-too-human.\u201d The exhibition uses that understanding to open up many startling paintings. Each of the rooms is conceived as a discrete, brilliant statement of intent. Lineages of influence and friendship are traced, like a list of biblical begats. Sickert taught Bomberg; Bomberg taught William Coldstream and Frank Auerbach and Leon Kossoff; Coldstream taught Euan Uglow and Michael Andrews and Paula Rego at the Slade, where Lucian Freud was also a tutor, and so on. The bloodlines are carefully calibrated. Coldstream may have insisted on the primacy of attention, of looking, but his relatively low-wattage nude here becomes something remarkable in the hands of his pupil Uglow. Bacon may have delineated the psychological fallout of war, but Auerbach, who arrived in London on a Kindertransport, sought to give you the thing itself; his paintings of the early 1960s have you look into the ongoing wounds in the capital, put you in the ruins of great clay-ey layers of paint in Rebuilding the Empire Cinema, Leicester Square and have you imagine the slow work of reconstruction. If the close friendships and rivalries between these painters start to make it seem like another exclusive British club, the show also acknowledges the presence of one or two alternative histories. Francis Nelson Souza, born in Goa, arrived in London from Bombay in 1949 and his black-on-black saints and voodoo crucifixions ask different questions of Britishness, though they lack the foregrounded industry, the intensive overpainting, of the self-styled London school. For all such intriguing diversions, the heart of the show remains the forcefield of a relationship between Bacon and Lucian Freud. In the immediate postwar years Freud seemed to want to cling to a kind of limpid sensuality, however disturbed. His pair of portraits of his wife, his Girl With a Kitten and Girl With a White Dog appear to inhabit the world his grandad Sigmund first analysed, that of the uncanny: his sitter and intimate seems at once alive and almost drained of animation, beyond a wild-eyed stare. Freud is somewhat desperately questioning what is vital and what is not. That question is carried over to the wonderful room of his later portraits, in the settled hogbrush-and-impasto style of his mature career, in which he makes the human form a convincingly lived-in slab of meat. His sitters in the paintings chosen here \u2013 including the headline acts of performance artist Leigh Bowery and benefits supervisor Sue Tilley \u2013 are mostly asleep, accentuating their too, too solid flesh, and its myth of impermanence. Bacon\u2019s portraits \u2013 including his study of Freud himself, a satyr-like figure with several rows of teeth \u2013 are far less substantial, forever threatening to thaw and melt into something less than human. There are counterweights and balances to these primal forces. Something like joy emerges in some of the later work here, in Frank Auerbach\u2019s Mornington Crescent mornings and twilit Primrose Hill evenings, in the fabulous cacophony of Leon Kossoff\u2019s Children\u2019s Swimming Pool and the wonderful furtive groping of Cecily Brown\u2019s Teenage Wildlife. The refusal of narrative in Freud and Bacon, which reflected a distrust of any form of lasting domesticity, is interrogated in particular by Michael Andrews and Paula Rego. Their storytelling seems far more alive to the possibility of relationship; subjects are no longer isolated, or held captive, in the studio. Michael Andrews\u2019s painting Melanie and Me Swimming strikes a different note from anything else in the show, a rare celebration of what could be uncomplicated love and connection as the painter reimagines a moment in which he supported his daughter in the water \u2013 even if that connection is encased and spotlit in an enclosing blackness. Paula Rego\u2019s triptych The Betrothal looks like a modern take on the satirical nuptials of Hogarth, until the last panel, that is, in which the artist depicts herself cradling her husband, Victor Willing, who suffered with multiple sclerosis for 15 years before his death \u2013 a personal pieta of unfathomable intimacy; all too human indeed. \u2022 At Tate Britain until 27 August Three stars of the show Painter and Model (2012) Celia Paul Taught by Lucian Freud at the Slade, and for a time his muse and lover, Celia Paul made this self-portrait partly to subvert the familiar role of women in portraiture. By making herself both artist and subject she regains power over her own image. The half-used-up paint tubes scattered at her feet are a reference to Freud\u2019s habitual method. The Shipwreck, after Marriage \u00e0 la Mode by Hogarth (1999) Paula Rego In the third panel of a triptych that explores the psychodrama of her own marriage, Rego confronts the fact of her husband\u2019s multiple sclerosis. Victor Willing was a fellow student at the Slade when the pair met; they married after he divorced his first wife and lived first in Portugal, then in London. In 1966 Willing was diagnosed with MS and in this panel, borrowing the familiar structure of a Christian pieta, Rego captures the intimacy of the long years of support. Study for a portrait of Lucian Freud (1964) Francis Bacon Held in a private collection and shown for the first time in half a century, Bacon\u2019s bare-chested portrait of his friend was one of three studies that Bacon made in the Soho years when the pair saw each other most days."
"5||The week in TV: Save Me; Strike; The Assassination of Gianni Versace, and moreSave Me (Sky Atlantic/Now TV) Strike (BBC One) | iPlayer The Assassination of Gianni Versace: American Crime Story (BBC Two) | iPlayer Civilisations (BBC Two) | iPlayer Had Save Me been airing weekly on terrestrial television, I suspect it would have garnered the kind of shocked chatter normally accorded the likes of Doctor Foster. You simply itch to see where it will go next, what walls it will climb in its fever, what skeletons will rattle from its closets: had this six-parter been on (say) Channel 4, it would have held a nation agog until April. As is now the way, you can binge in one, though I\u2019d respectfully suggest you don\u2019t, thus risking heartburn from what might well be the finest British drama Sky have yet produced. It rides somewhat against my principles, but I would urge readers to invest, if not in Sky, at least in a Now TV box for the likes of this. It\u2019s a relatively simple, if bitterly sorry, tale: Nelson \u201cNelly\u201d Rowe, a ducker and a weaver and a chancer and a fighter and a louse, almost wholly redeemed by his charm, is suddenly arrested for complicity in the disappearance/abduction of his own daughter, whom he has never known. He\u2019s been set up, young Jody lured into a false online chat with someone in the guise of Nelly, who knows his most esoteric personal details: Nelson is in the habit of singing them out during his many lock-ins in the Palm Tree, a south London boozer the likes of which few sadly remain. It\u2019s grim viewing at times. Only one person dies, but there are long periods of barely suppressed menace, often erupting in sharp angry violence, and there\u2019s a constant, grimmer, backlighting of child grooming. And a near-physically unwatchable \u201cauction\u201d in a snooker hall; I had to stand and busy myself with the kettle. Stephen Graham\u2019s character, Melon, the degrees of whose paedophilia are constantly toyed with in our minds and that of his girfriend, Bernie \u2013 is he really searching the dark web as a favour to Nelly, to find Jody; has he truly recanted his urges? \u2013 is an astonishingly rounded and subtle creation (and deserves awards). Suranne Jones \u2013 for it is she, Doc Foster herself \u2013 excels as ex-wife Claire, and even the Palm Tree is almost a character in itself, lairy, swift to anger, swift to forgive: the inhabitants reminiscent of the finest creations from This Is England. Above all, it\u2019s an extraordinary tour de force for Lennie James, who wrote and created and stars: his face is the very study of conflict, humour, pain, burgeoning violence and a desperate need to glean redemption, and he pulls off each facet with powerhouse magnificence. It\u2019s also a bittersweet paean to the real lives lived around the towers in Deptford: misery, poverty, bongs and squats and squalor undoubtedly, but these are suddenly intercut with random delightful shots \u2013 a Buddhist meditating amid the madness, a woman in full burqa carrying a gaudy skateboard, pensioners high-kicking at a bus stop. Anyone would have the right to be seriously ticked off with spoilers, but I reckon I can confidently venture that few dramatic plots this year will pivot so vitally, as this does at the end of the fifth hour, on the phrase \u201csaltfish dumplings\u201d. One has the tiniest suspicion that, in Strike\u2019s Robin Ellacott, JK Rowling is indulging a bit of wish-fulfilment. She has, of course, all the fame and success she could ever have hoped for, but inside might there be someone who longs to be in her 20s, racing around solving crimes in a battered old Land Rover with a gruff bear of a sexy amputee? Holliday Grainger, who plays Robin, and Tom Burke as private investigator Cormoran Strike are fast becoming the will-they-won\u2019t-they item de nos jours: the motel scene, filmed from the exterior of their neighbouring windows, was a delicious nod to Michelle Pfeiffer and Jeff Bridges in The Fabulous Baker Boys. The plots may be loopily impenetrable (though this was the best of the three Strike outings so far) but Cormoran and Robin\u2019s immensely comfortable silences, punctuated by gentle repartee \u2013 \u201cIs your leg all right?\u201d \u201cNo, it\u2019s been blown off\u201d \u2013 contrast savagely with the wet weekend of Robin\u2019s fiance Matthew and his mimsy, entitled, sneaky, paleo-vegan chums. Indeed, just why Robin, after Matthew is exposed as seven kinds of louse, might consider being won over by wheedling apologies and \u201cthat Nigel Slater salmon thing you like\u201d, and still be even thinking of the wedding, is becoming the only mystery in town. A quick word about visuals: the BBC have done a seriously crafty job with the prosthetics and digital remastering: Burke must occasionally, watching this from his sofa, tap downwards to reassure himself that he does, after all, possess two legs. And the titling credits, all classy noir-novel fonts and gorgeous grainy mustards, are the best currently on television. From the team behind last year\u2019s The People v OJ Simpson, another enthralling slice of American murder. For those who thought (as did I) that it was a bit of a fuss in 1997 over a dead frock-jockey, the nine-part drama The Assassination of Gianni Versace: American Crime Story will prove a surprisingly necessary corrective. We see, in the anguish of the fans, the power of fashion; and in their desperation to grab a slice of his death, the power of greed. We see another world: a Miami Beach villa of hazy light and splendours that would have shamed Greek gods, and of a jealous, bitter, fantasist serial killer. It\u2019s sharp, mesmerising, and we\u2019ve only just got into the Donatella story, with a wonderfully cast Pen\u00e9lope Cruz. Civilisations is, as you might suspect given the hagiographic reverence in which its Kenneth Clark predecessor is held at the Beeb, a big and clever and sprawling beast, updated to take into account that whitey didn\u2019t, after all, invent all of art and culture and farming. Mary Beard and David Olusoga, who recently gave us the winning A House Through Time, present future episodes, but this first was Simon Schama at his finest, taking us with anger (about Isis) and wisdom (about art) somehow seamlessly from Picasso back to bison cave-paintings and Mayan catastrophes. A sage, sober, ambitious and very BBC undertaking, and on early signs a triumph. The Beeb might even be forgiven the actionable decision to bump the longed-for third episode of Shetland for some terminally mediocre fifth-round kick-ball replay."
"5||Sunday\u2019s best TV: Marvel\u2019s Agents of SHIELD; 90th Academy AwardsMarvel\u2019s Agents of SHIELD 9pm, E4 As the Marvel Cinematic Universe has evolved, its small-screen companion series \u2013 centred on straight-arrow Phil Coulson and his sarcastic cadre of secret agents \u2013 has increasingly seemed sidelined. This feature-length season-five opener appears to embrace the show\u2019s under-the-radar status with an oblique opening montage soundtracked by Talking Heads that climaxes with most of the cast marooned in outer space on a rickety spaceship infested with hungry aliens. The intriguing result is more Black Mirror than Red Skull. Graeme Virtue Hold the Sunset 7.30pm, BBC One Given the cracking cast \u2013 which includes Alison Steadman, Jason Watkins and Anne Reid \u2013 it is a shame that this comedy isn\u2019t funnier. Tonight, Edith (Steadman) is trying to book a holiday, while her son Roger (Watkins) gets a surprising offer from his wife that forces him to ponder the meaning of life. Hannah Verdier Call the Midwife 8pm, BBC One Another week, another emotional episode of a show that has truly honed its ratings-grabbing mix of fact and fiction. Dr Turner tries to help a teen from a remand home, and \u2013 doctor patient confidentiality swiftly breached \u2013 Shelagh assists his pregnant girlfriend. Meanwhile, Barbara remains in a critical condition. Hannah J Davies Churchill\u2019s Secret Affair 8pm, Channel 4 Winston Churchill had plenty on his plate in the 1940s. In addition to trying to win a war, he was managing the potentially explosive fallout from an affair with mildly scandalous socialite (and great aunt of Cara Delevingne) Doris Castlerosse. This intriguing and eventually slightly melancholy doc explores their dalliance. Phil Harrison Strike \u2013 Career of Evil 9pm, BBC One The workaday sleuther concludes its two-parter, hobbled by the scenes with Holliday Grainger and Tom Burke apart being so inferior to the ones in which they\u2019re together. The PI as minor celeb is a Sherlockian motif; for keen-eyed viewers, the attempt to ape a more specific Sherlock trick is fatally too obvious. Jack Seale 90th Academy Awards 1.30am, Sky Cinema Oscars This year\u2019s Oscars should see big wins for Guillermo del Toro\u2019s gorgeous The Shape of Water, Dunkirk, and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. If Frances McDormand doesn\u2019t win best actress for the latter, a robbery will have been committed. Fingers crossed for Get Out, too. Ali Catterall Film choice Wyatt Earp, 12.50pm, Channel 5 A handsome account of the great lawman, sturdily played by Kevin Costner. It has the rich texture of history in the making, and makes a hell of a battle out of the infamous gunfight at the OK Corral. Among the starry cast are Gene Hackman as big daddy Earp, and Dennis Quaid as the tubercular Doc Holliday. Paul Howlett Live sport Premier League Football: Brighton &amp; Hove Albion v Arsenal With Man City v Chelsea to follow. 12.30pm, Sky Sports Main Event Premiership Rugby: Worcester Warriors v Leicester Tigers Action from Sixways Stadium. 2.30pm, BT Sport 1 Athletics: The World Indoor Championships The final day from Birmingham. 2.45pm, BBC Two"
"19||A face gym is a fad I can get behindOK, so I went to the gym. A face gym, as in a gym for your face. Please don\u2019t judge me, hear me out. Yes FaceGym is a new thang, it\u2019s all-a-buzz on some Instagrams, innit? There is a snowballing excitement for this new beauty fix and though I am sometimes a little punk and grouchy when it comes to fads, this time I\u2019m hooked. FaceGym is inspired by an ancient Chinese practice that consists of an amalgamation of massaging and sculpting the 40-plus muscles of our face in various ways, as well as rubbing a healing jade stone into its crevices in order to release tension. The concept is quite different to what\u2019s associated with your usual \u2018pampering facial\u2019 \u2013 it\u2019s bit more of a butt-kicking approach. When my \u2018trainer\u2019 (yes, it is a gym after all) held a mirror up, after having one half of my face \u2018worked out\u2019, it was pretty fun to see that the eyebrow on the massaged side was higher than the other \u2013 something had clearly worked. A final giddy note on the technique: there are lots of YouTube videos on \u2018face yoga\u2019 and \u2018Chinese face massage\u2019 to work on your facial muscles at home, too. facegym.com Follow Gemma on Twitter @gemcairn and Instagram @gemagain"
"23||Zuni Caf\u00e9, San Francisco: 'Not merely a list of dishes, but a way of life' \u2013 restaurant reviewZuni Caf\u00e9, 1658 Market Street, San Francisco (001 415 552 2522). Meal for two, including drinks, service and chicken $180 (\u00a3130) How do you roast a chicken? Every meat eater has a method. Here\u2019s mine. First I spatchcock the bird, by cutting down the backbone and opening it up so it looks like a huge albino toad. It roasts quicker that way, and where roast chicken is concerned quick is your friend. I smear it with olive oil, squeeze over the juice of a lemon, then season it with salt and pepper. I sprinkle it with fennel seeds. You want amounts don\u2019t you, but I\u2019ve never measured it. How about two tablespoons full? That sounds all grown up and precise. I stuff large knobs of butter into the bird\u2019s crevices, while shouting at whichever tosspot pro-Brexit Tory MP is being interviewed on Radio 4\u2019s PM. Finally, I shove it in a hot oven and forget about it for 45 minutes. After that it gets 10 minutes on its back. I turn it back over, baste it a bit and wait until it\u2019s crisp. I check this by stealing the parson\u2019s nose. My kitchen, my perks. And that\u2019s it, in two short paragraphs. The recipe for the famed roast chicken served at the equally famed Zuni Caf\u00e9 in San Francisco, fills four and half pages of the Zuni Caf\u00e9 Cookbook. According to the revered Zuni chef Judy Rodgers, who died in 2013, it involves pre-salting at least 24 hours before you want to roast it. You also have to probe the space between skin and breast with nimble fingers, so as to stuff it with herbs. Next you have to take it to a retrospective of Woody Allen movies, followed by a feverish debate over whether the man\u2019s work can be separated from his alleged behaviour. You might as well do that; you\u2019ll be spending a lot of time with this chicken. There\u2019s also a salad of old, rough bread, pine nuts and currants to be made, a kind of stuffing that never makes it inside the bird. All these things take time, conviction and a sense of unease that you\u2019ve roundly screwed up what should be very simple. The most familiar dishes are always the most controversial where restaurants are concerned, and there are few more familiar than a chicken, roasted. It is the dish most likely to bring out the joyless inverse snobs who want you to know that they could do this at home at a fraction of the cost. Such people are of course welcome to stay home and enjoy their bitter, strangulated lives. The rest of us are welcome to find out if the professionals really can make the quotidian into the extraordinary, if we have the cash. The Zuni roast chicken is certainly a thing. It has featured on myriad lists of greatest restaurant dishes, compiled by the sort of magazines that put pictures of eroticised cheesecake on the cover. It has been like that pretty much since Rodgers arrived there from Alice Waters\u2019s famed Chez Panisse just across the bay in 1987. The restaurant, occupying its triangular corner space on Market Street, is dominated by a wood-fired oven. Logs are piled around it. We are in a faux peasant, faux rustic fantasy. Along with the cooking of other Chez Panisse alumni, such as chefs Jeremiah Tower and David Tanis, Zuni has long been regarded as a standard bearer for a refined Californian-Italian style of cookery. The menu references tender herbs, and fennel, which is always shaved. It is not merely a list of dishes. It\u2019s a way of life. Here then am I, in San Francisco. I have never before tried the Zuni roast chicken. It must be done. Five of us order two of them the moment we sit down. It always takes 60 minutes, so you have to get ahead of the game. Each one costs $58. This includes the bread salad under the bird and a thicket of dressed salad leaves on top, which changes with the seasons. At the moment it\u2019s frilly mustard greens, and very pretty it is, too. That price does not include service, an obligatory 20%. So that\u2019s $70. In mitigation each chicken can easily feed three. So how is it? Sensational? Not quite, but it is very, very good. They cook it fast and untrussed. The skin is properly crisp. The meat is not at all dry and, praise be, it tastes of something. The great failing is the lack of lubrication. No gravy, jus or juices. It cries out for a drenching, not to make it less dry but to make it more thrilling. Happily, though, there is the bread salad, full of crisped croutons dressed first in the molten chicken fat and then a fine vinaigrette, with hits of sour and sweet from the currants. On the side is a rustling heap of matchstick-like shoestring potatoes, at another $8. My suspicion is that to replicate this at home really would take a couple of days, and even then you wouldn\u2019t quite be there. But it is one of those bucket list jobs. I\u2019ve done it. I don\u2019t quite feel the need to do it again, not at that price. Curiously, I would rush back for many of the other things: the perfect, unviolated caesar salad, possibly the best version I\u2019ve ever eaten. There are crisp leaves of romaine, garlicky croutons, a simple dressing of olive oil, vinegar, a touch of mustard and minced anchovies. It reminds you why it is a classic that needs no adornment. I love the plate of their own cured anchovies, alongside finely sliced parmesan and celery, bathing in a pool of peppery olive oil. A pizza laid with \u201cwagon wheel cheese\u201d \u2013 if only they knew what bursts of sweaty-palmed nostalgia those words conjure in the UK \u2013 sliced roast pork, garlic and orange zest is exceptionally good. The thin crust is blistered from its journey through the ferocious heat of the wood-fired oven. Desserts are good, too, especially a Pavlova built around a crisp and soft snowy-white meringue, with the plump burst of purple huckleberries, and a Gateau Victoire of the very darkest chocolate. It looks like it will be heavy and cloying. It is lightness itself. Of course, the final bill for all this is of a sort that a city in thrall to tech Leviathan money will encourage, though you can eat there for much less. What\u2019s striking is that a restaurant that has been around for decades is still doing the thing. It\u2019s not become a parody of itself, knocking out greatest hits. The chicken makes its own case. That\u2019s a remarkable achievement. Jay\u2019s news bites Back in London, and at the other end of the financial scale, is the rotisserie chicken outfit Cocotte, with both a restaurant in Westbourne Grove and a delivery-only kitchen. A full bird costs \u00a322, gets a proper seeing to on the rotisserie, and comes with, among other things, a punchy gravy. Side salads are hearty and they serve terrific roasted new potatoes (mycocotte.co.uk). A Swedish app called Karma, enabling customers to buy discounted restaurant food that might otherwise be thrown away, has launched in London. According to Wrap, the Waste and Resources Action Programme, wasted food costs UK restaurants \u00a3700m a year. Already 50 restaurants, including Aquavit and Calcutta Street, have signed up. Congrats to chef Stephen Harris whose Sportsman Cookbook, named after his pub restaurant in Kent, won the Andr\u00e9 Simon food book of the year last week. The Observer\u2019s Rachel Cooke, who was tasked with making the choice, described it as \u2018inspirational, well-written and expert\u2019. Email Jay at jay.rayner@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @jayrayner1"
"29||Unusual late-blooming bulbsMarch is here and the first signs of spring are suddenly starting to pop up everywhere. This is always my cue to begin planting bulbs whose exotic flowers and warm colours help extend the season of interest in your plot later into the year. Many blooms can last right up until the first frosts of autumn. While I do love the old faithful favourites of dahlia, gladioli and canna, there are loads of more weird and wonderful options that, to me at least, never quite get the limelight they deserve. If you are up for experimenting with wild-card options, here are three quirky summer bulbs for you to try, both indoors and out. Between their impossibly exotic blooms and far-flung origins in the wilds of South Africa, you might imagine the pineapple lily (Eucomis sp) would be a difficult option on our chilly island chain. Yet these beauties come with a surprising built-in tolerance for the cold. After freezing winters that have laid waste normally reliable options, such as cordylines and phormiums, I have seen them spring up the next summer as if nothing had happened. The stout, fat flower heads of Eucomis bicolor are real showstoppers, each pale yellow petal lined with delicate burgundy on blooms that will last for weeks. If you want to kick it up a notch, Eucomis comosa \u2018Sparkling Burgundy\u2019 erupts out of the ground each spring with brilliant claret-coloured rosettes of foliage, topped with green, white and shocking pink flowers in the summer. Beautiful. Cobra lilies are true wonders of nature with architectural foliage that is beaten for bizarreness only by their astonishing urn-shaped flowers. Their pink mottling and weird stripes make them look distinctly reptilian. OK, they may not exactly have the longest flowering period, but boy do they put on a show when they do and, frankly, their foliage is so lovely I have grown many for the leaves alone. Plant these rhizomes outdoors in a shady spot in deep, rich soil to mimic their woodland habitat and they will come back year after year. Just one word of caution \u2013 these plants are martyrs to slugs in my experience, so make sure you keep on top of them by using an effective control, such as nematodes. Finally, if you have a conservatory or empty corner in a warm room, you would need to look pretty far to find a climber more dramatic and unusual than the gloriosa lily (Gloriosa rothschildiana) from Africa and Asia. Delicate, vining branches cling to any support using whip-like tendrils that sprout from the end of each leaf and, come the summer, offer a steady supply of spidery, Sputnik-like red and yellow flowers. That\u2019s a weird description, I know, but flowers this wonderfully strange can be a challenge to the vocabulary! They grow so fast from inexpensive tubers that I can\u2019t think of any similar-sized, exotic vine that will give you better results for your money. The image on this article was changed on the 7 March 2018 to a picture of an arisaema, also known in the UK as a cobra lily. Previously the picture showed the wrong species. Email James at james.wong@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @Botanygeek"
"29||\u2018Upskirt\u2019 photos at the Brits show we\u2019re living in a feminist limboHolly Willoughby went to the Brit awards. \u201cAt the beginning of the night we held white roses and walked down a red carpet full of the hope and pride that comes with the #timesup campaign,\u201d she captioned a post on Instagram. It was a collage featuring photos of herself, Abbey Clancy, Louise Redknapp and Rita Ora as they got into their taxis to go home. They\u2019re not great photos, I\u2019ll be honest. Their faces are gleaming with the paparazzi\u2019s flash, their eyes are looking away or half closed, their bodies are at awkward angles, their bare legs abstracted by the crop of the car doors. \u201cAt the end of the night,\u201d Willoughby added, \u201ccameras were held low to get a photo up our skirts\u2026 time\u2019s apparently up on #timesup.\u201d We\u2019re in quite an odd place at the moment, aren\u2019t we? A bit weird. Slightly sort of\u2026 medicated feeling, that sleeping pilled detachment from what once felt like real life. We\u2019re floating between two shores. Because this Willoughby moment has been happening in various iterations ever since the campaign began. After Weinstein was exposed, Kevin Spacey was accused of making unwelcome sexual advances towards a 14-year-old, and then of sexual assault. He denies the allegations, but Ridley Scott still decided to erase him from his finished film All The Money in the World. This meant reshoots for co-stars Michelle Williams and Mark Wahlberg, while Scott replaced Spacey with Christopher Plummer. \u201cI said I\u2019d be wherever they needed me, whenever they needed me,\u201d Williams said. \u201cAnd they could have my salary, they could have my holiday, whatever they wanted. Because I appreciated so much that they were making this massive effort.\u201d She was paid $80 a day. Wahlberg, it emerged (though he donated it to the Times Up fund later) had negotiated for $1.5m. So there was that. A big clanking reminder that, for all the cute chatter, the bones of our society don\u2019t bend. It even resonated in last week\u2019s muted scandal about Jennifer Lawrence\u2019s dress. A year ago, the photo of Lawrence in a split-to-the-thigh dress, standing on a balcony beside her male co-stars in their winter coats, wouldn\u2019t have been given a second glance. But today it was held up as an illustration of Hollywood\u2019s gender inequality. Which led to a Facebook post from Lawrence herself: \u201cThis is sexist, this is ridiculous, this is not feminism. Overreacting about everything someone says or does, creating controversy over silly innocuous things such as what I choose to wear or not wear, is not moving us forward. It\u2019s creating silly distractions from real issues.\u201d And while there is, of course, a conversation to be had about the parameters of choice (there is always a conversation to be had, please don\u2019t get me going), the whole episode felt a little bizarre. We are in a kind of feminist limbo, a place of change, where women striding forward are routinely tripped up by those for whom the Time\u2019s Up or Me Too movements, at best, are just another ding on their phone \u2013 the same sound it makes when the eggtimer goes, or when they receive a WhatsApp notification from their auntie \u2013 and at worst an opportunity for profit. And the Lawrence episode revealed a similar disconnect, even for those engaged with it. A scrabbling for meaning, a panic. This week, Monica Lewinsky published an essay in Vanity Fair, reflecting on the effect #MeToo has had on her, and reframing her \u201cyear of shame\u201d from this distance. Which made me realise that this is something that\u2019s not unique to Lewinsky \u2013 a similar reframing is happening for many women as they look back at their experiences through this new, clean lens. But inevitably that adds to a current feeling of instability and oddness \u2013 what is true? What is real? I keep returning to those Brit awards photos, and the familiar blankness of uplit women trying to keep their knees together as they slide into taxis home. It\u2019s not too much of a stretch to liken upskirt shots to the now familiar headlines about female politicians\u2019 wardrobes, or newsreaders\u2019 cleavages, or commentary that diverts attention from what a woman is saying, or reduces her to a thing. The upskirt photo (which currently in the UK is only a crime in Scotland) is probably the most explicit reminder of the layers of horror a woman encounters in public life, and the dissonance between her identity and her tabloid worth. When they\u2019re taken today, up the skirts of women \u201cfull of the hope and pride that comes with the #timesup campaign\u201d, they carry a particular sting, a gasping moment to contemplate the transitory no man\u2019s land in which we\u2019ve found ourselves, this creaking lift between two floors. Email Eva at e.wiseman@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @EvaWiseman"
"23||Joe Trivelli\u2019s preserved food recipesIt can be hard to know what to cook during the \u201chungry gap\u201d. At the River Caf\u00e9, where I am head chef, we are in the midst of broad beans, asparagus and peas from Italy; but in the veg box left on my doorstep at home, such signs of spring are lacking. I wish I had spent the summer pickling and storing seasonal abundance as my southern Italian forebears would have done. Such is the delight of discovering, in January, a good jar of peppers under vinegar, that I find myself enjoying them quite as much as their fresh equivalents. Remember, you do not have to think of the jars and tins in the way that the labels invite you to. All recipes serve 4. Russian salad I strongly urge you to make this. It is satisfying in every way \u2013 to make and to eat. If you are at all worried about making your own mayonnaise rest assured that the addition of tuna in its base makes it far more stable. Change the herbs if you like \u2013 I enjoy coriander \u2013 but just don\u2019t add sweetcorn, please. Beetroots? Carrots? The difficulty is in deciding what to leave out \u2013 green beans? Apple? Eat it with bread. preserved sustainable tuna 250g of the best quality salted anchovies 4 egg 1 yolk celeriac 250g potatoes 250g Romanesco broccoli or cauliflower 200g peppers from a bottle or tin 2 peas 100g, frozen or jarred inner heart of celery 1 parsley a small bunch salted capers 1 tbsp, rinsed of salt black olives 2 tbsp gherkin 1 Dijon mustard 1 tbsp lemon 1 wine vinegar 1 tbsp olive oil 250ml sea salt black pepper To make the sauce, drain the tuna and put with an egg yolk into a food processor adding the juice of half a lemon, a sprinkle of salt, 2 of the anchovy fillets and the mustard. Blitz to a paste, stopping halfway through and scrapping down the sides of the bowl. With the machine running, add 250ml of olive oil in a thin stream over a minute to produce a thick mayonnaise. Taste for seasoning \u2013 as often as not, I\u2019ll add the juice of the rest of the lemon at this stage. Chill. If using frozen, cook the peas in a pan under a lid with a teaspoon of oil, a pinch of salt and a little water. Cook like this for 10 minutes until they lose their colour a bit. Peel and dice the potato, celeriac and celery into the size of small sugar cubes. Keep separate. Cut the Romanesco or cauliflower into florets roughly the same size. Cook the potatoes in a pot of salted boiling water for roughly 8 minutes, adding the celeriac after 4 minutes, and the Romanesco and celery after 6. Drain well and toss in a large bowl with 1 tbsp of vinegar and the peas. Leave to cool. Cut the peppers into squares of the required size, the olives and gherkin, too. To these add the capers, the remaining anchovies torn into pieces and the parsley roughly chopped. Line a bowl with clingfilm and mix everything together. Fill the bowl and chill in the fridge for at least an hour. Turn out on to a plate and garnish with extra parsley. Chicken livers with peppers and vinegar This is loosely based on something my gran used to make me. I make the same dish in the summer with fresh yellow peppers cooked just a little longer. Sometimes I skip them altogether and add soaked sultanas in their place. chicken livers 1 kg bottled peppers 250g of the best quality red onion 1, small garlic 1 clove almonds 75g, whole wine vinegar 2 tbsp crushed dried chilli a pinch oregano or coriander sea salt olive oil 1 tbsp Clean the chicken livers by cutting them in half and removing sinew or anything else untoward. Don\u2019t worry if they tear a bit. Pat them on a kitchen towel to dry a little. Slice the onion thinly and also the garlic. Toast the almonds in a dry pan over a low heat. When they are good and toasted, chop them roughly. Take the peppers from the jar and slice about 1cm thick, reserving their liquid. Cook the onions over a low-ish heat, just covered with water, a pinch of salt and a generous tbsp of oil. Once the water has evaporated and the onions have softened, add the garlic and chilli and sweat for a couple more minutes. Season the livers and add them to the pot, turning them over in the onions as they heat up. After a minute, add the peppers followed by some of their liquid and 2 tbsp of vinegar for extra zing. Once boiling, cover with a lid or a scrunched-up piece of baking paper and stew over a medium heat for 15-20 minutes. Add the herbs, adjust the seasoning and serve with almonds scattered over. Stuffed sundried tomatoes This is a way to beam sunlight into March cooking for a quick and colourful snack. There are varying qualities of dried tomatoes: look for those dried in the sun rather than an oven. Note: they can be pretty punchy so consider slightly under-seasoning everything else. sundried tomatoes 30 (about 250g) cavolo nero 200g breadcrumbs 100g pork mince 100g eggs 2 nutmeg garlic 1 clove, peeled and crushed fennel seeds a pinch Parmesan 50g Fontina 50g, or another good melting cheese extra virgin olive oil sea salt black pepper Soak the tomatoes for around 10 minutes in hot water to reconstitute them. Meanwhile, make the fillings. Boil the cavolo nero in salted water for 7 minutes. Drain it, squeeze out the water and chop well. Put the cavolo nero in a bowl with an egg, the grated Fontina, a good scrape of nutmeg, half the breadcrumbs and half of the crushed garlic. Season and mix well. In another bowl put the pork mince, the second egg, fennel seeds, Parmesan, the rest of the garlic and remaining breadcrumbs. Season the mixture and squeeze it with your fingers to bring all the ingredients together. Heat the oven to 180C/gas mark 4. Line a baking sheet with a piece of cooking paper and lightly oil. Drain the tomatoes and spread them out over the sheet, filling half of them with the greens and the other half with the pork. Bake for 15-20 minutes and serve. Figs with mascarpone cream A man with the nicest name, Erminio, gave me a jar of his figs preserved in a simple wine syrup. He suggested serving them with mascarpone and cocoa. dried figs 250g dry vermouth 300ml sugar 70g lemon peel a twist cinnamon 1 stick fennel seeds a pinch mascarpone 250g egg 1 cocoa powder for dusting toasted hazelnuts a handful Bring the figs and vermouth to boil over a low flame with the lemon peel, cinnamon, fennel and 2 tbsp of the sugar. Simmer for 7 minutes. Turn off and leave to cool. Separate the egg into 2 bowls. Whisk the white to soft peaks before gradually adding half the sugar, whisking continually. Beat the rest of the remaining sugar into the yolk until pale. Whip in the mascarpone until thick and then fold through the whites and chill. Serve the cool figs with the mascarpone, a dusting of bitter cocoa and a sprinkling of toasted hazelnuts. Joe Trivelli is head chef at the River Caf\u00e9. Nigel Slater returns in two weeks"
"29||How bright ideas turned a ramshackle London flat into a cosy family homeWe co-owned a larder before we bought a flat together,\u201d recalls Alexis Burke. \u201cThat was our first big commitment, really.\u201d The larder was bought on a whim by Burke, a director of television documentaries, and her husband, the Bafta-winning actor Adeel Akhtar, on a visit to AG Hendy &amp; Co in Hastings. \u201cIt\u2019s a very special shop that sells Victorian homeware,\u201d explains Burke. \u201cBut realistically, I\u2019m usually found shopping in Tiger\u2026\u201d The couple and their young son, Arlo (17 months) are currently living between LA and their warm, colourful family home in Camberwell, south London, due to Akhtar\u2019s work. When they were handed the keys to their flat in 2013, Burke remembers standing in the entrance thinking: \u201cWorst. Idea. Ever.\u201d Years of renting had taken its toll on the two-storey flat. During their search, the advice of a friend stuck with them: buy the worst house on the best street. \u201cAnd this is a really lovely, quiet street,\u201d says Burke. The flat is on an estate with an active tenants\u2019 and residents\u2019 association that organises events in a house belonging to the community. \u201cThere\u2019s yoga, a monthly \u2018grub club\u2019 where everyone brings their own dishes to share, a movie night and gardening club,\u201d explains Burke. \u201cMy parents were so jealous, they\u2019ve moved around the corner.\u201d The couple enlisted the help of a builder who bought into their vision for the place, which Burke describes as \u201cslightly hazy and unthought out\u201d. The flat occupies the ground and lower-ground floor of an early Victorian terrace. On the bright ground floor is the front room and open-plan kitchen. On the lower ground floor are two bedrooms and a mustard yellow bathroom. Access to the garden is via a half-landing between the floors. The kitchen was custom built. \u201cI kept looking through Ikea catalogues and thinking: \u2018I don\u2019t know how to pick anything,\u2019\u201d recalls Burke. \u201cWe were looking everywhere and not loving anything. Luckily, my dad had a basement full of old things including a collection of old Victorian crates.\u201d Burke showed two to her builder and \u201che ran with the idea\u201d. They formed the basis of the kitchen design. \u201cHe sourced more crates and built the surface and the frame from reclaimed wood,\u201d says Burke. \u201cIt was just quite a relief to find someone that would go along with our silly plans. \u201cBy the time the builder had finished, he\u2019d done such a lovely job, the flat really felt like a blank canvas for us to add our bits to,\u201d says Burke. She fought the urge to paint the walls in bright colours (\u201csomething I\u2019ve done my entire life\u201d) and instead kept them white, allowing their colourful possessions to stand out. \u201cThe flat is a compromise of styles,\u201d says Burke. \u201cAdeel loves really dark, worn furniture, like the leather chair we have, and the old table in the kitchen. I\u2019d say he\u2019s got an industrial style, whereas I\u2019m quite drawn to bright, vibrant colours. The flat has become a combination of the two styles.\u201d Colour comes from Burke\u2019s collection of Donna Wilson cushions. \u201cI used to go to her studio sale and buy one cushion each year. I\u2019d bring them back to my rented flat and imagine that one day I\u2019d be able to have them on display in my own home.\u201d The blinds in the kitchen and front room are made from fabric designed by Tamasyn Gambell: \u201cI really love patterns and she\u2019s an amazing designer: I went to primary school with her,\u201d says Burke. The artwork on the wall is mostly by friends and family members. The prints in the kitchen are by Matthew Meadows, an artist based in Brixton and a close friend. There is also work by Burke\u2019s father (\u201ca compulsive artist\u201d) on display, as well as a collection of vintage film posters that she bought on a trip to Cuba 10 years ago: \u201cI was drawn to them because of the colours and bold designs.\u201d There are two above Arlo\u2019s bed. \u201cHe points to the one of Charlie Chaplin and says \u2018Dada\u2019.\u201d There\u2019s meaning in most of the objects in this family home, but perhaps the most precious item is a rocking chair. \u201cMy dad and my cousin George found this on the street around the corner and brought it in on our wedding day,\u201d recalls Burke. \u201cMy cousin put some wax on it and fixed it up a bit and we\u2019ve scratched \u2018AA\u2019 into it. Now Arlo\u2019s joined us, we need to add another \u2018A\u2019.\u201d"
"29||\u2018I have a loving husband and thought I was secure. Then a cat came into my life\u2019Pets can highlight your mental health issues. Ask my late dad how he was, he would tell you, \u201cFine\u201d. If you wanted more information, it was best to ask him how the dog was. \u201cOh, the dog is depressed.\u201d My dad was doing what Freud described as projection. This is when you split off a part of you that is too shameful for you to own and project it on to someone else and you believe your stuff is their stuff. My father could not own his vulnerability, but he could dump it on his dog. I hope I would be far too self-aware to project on to my pet. I\u2019d hate to think I was that dotty, but the magazine has just asked if they can send a photographer round. \u201cKevin isn\u2019t too keen on photos,\u201d I said. Our cat Kevin had been a stray and came to us from Battersea two years ago when he was around six months old. His body was the size of a can of extra-strong lager. That tubular torso would press against me all night, sometimes stretched alongside me, sometimes curled up in my armpit. In the evening, he would start on a lap but his thin body would elongate itself from your ankles to your thighs like a furry tube. He was playful, affectionate and excellent at being a cat. We followed the Battersea instructions of keeping him indoors for a month and then only let him out accompanied until he knew where to come back to. When he was ready for unaccompanied roaming, I tried to get a collar on him, but however tight I made it, he could spring it off. Even if he left the house with a collar on, he came back without it. Then one day he did not come back at all. The first time he went missing, he turned up at the Blacksmith and the Toffee Maker, a gastro pub half a mile from our house. He was returned to us swiftly by the landlord, who had taken him to the vet to get his microchip read. Getting Kevin microchipped was a very good idea. My fantasy is that he had chased the pub\u2019s resident cat all the way home and then did not know how to get back. How to describe how you fall in love with a cat? First, the softness of their fur and their choice of your ankles to rub around makes you melt a bit. Secondly, you get used to their presence in your home and come to rely on it for company; and thirdly I think we project our love for ourselves on to our animals and believe it is coming back our way. I like to think Kevin really does love me. Whether he does or not, I love him. For most of my adult life I have lived with a cat, sometimes two, and once I lived with three. I came to appreciate their individual characters and the different ways they kept me company, amused and comforted. But my love for Kevin seems more intense. There is a type of interaction adopted by cults and abusers when they want total devotion from you, called \u201cintermittent positive reinforcement\u201d. They start the relationship by heaping praise and appreciations on to you and then gradually begin to mock you, or ignore you, or dish out other types of cruelty so you try harder to win back that approval that you became addicted to. Kevin, having got me smitten, now occasionally ignored me, or bit me if his food bowl got as low as half-empty. \u201cOh, sorry Kevin,\u201d I\u2019d say, and do his bidding. People who are susceptible to intermittent positive reinforcement tend to be those who have an insecure attachment style. This means they feel insecure in their relationships and compelled to work extra hard at adapting, being too nice or too paranoid, and check up on their significant other as they cannot assume, like a secure person does, that their partner will not stray. I have been in a loving and stable relationship for 30 years \u2013 I believed myself cured; thought I was now secure. My unhappy youth, when romantic attachment was about the pain of longing rather than the joy of love, was, I thought, truly behind me, yet Kevin had reignited the feeling of longing. After the pub incident, I tended to check up on Kevin more. If he had owned a mobile phone, I would have broken into it. I followed him about. I may have scared away the wildlife he was stalking and he may have got irritated with me. People with an insecure attachment style can be annoying. He strayed again, this time he got himself stuck in a rear light well the other side of the square and was not discovered for two nights. His absences made me long for him more. Kevin loved it when we went to the country. We followed the Battersea code again of not letting him out alone until he knew where to come back and where his food was and all was good. Well, it was fine for me \u2013 not so much for the local rodent population \u2013 but I love Kevin so much that even watching him crunch up the heads of mice, upsetting though it is, is wonderful because I am in his presence. Those with an insecure attachment style can feel they are nothing without their love object. I overheard my husband telling someone, \u201cPhilippa\u2019s mental health depends on where the cat is.\u201d He was probably not projecting either. My daughter had taken a week\u2019s holiday to spend with me in the country. On the morning of her arrival Kevin had still not returned from a night out. We were supposed to be enjoying a time of picnics, bike rides and swims but here was I miserable and ruining my daughter\u2019s break. She and I asked everyone within a mile\u2019s radius but no one had seen him. There was only one house we did not visit because the owners were on holiday. They came back the day my daughter was leaving. When they opened their front door, a speedy Kevin shot out and came straight back home. He was remarkably fit after his week living off flies and toilet water but I was a wreck. Next time, I told myself, I won\u2019t worry: a difficult resolution to keep because when he sees an open door he shoots through it into anyone\u2019s house, shed or car. I have a dread of supermarket delivery vans \u2013 those are his favourite. A year later, he\u2019s missing again in London. I go to the pub, they haven\u2019t seen him. I trudge about calling him. Days pass, nothing. My entire life is Operation Kevin. We tweet about his disappearance and the London Evening Standard picks it up. He\u2019s on the front page (slow news day); I do posters; house-to-house enquiries; leaflets through letterboxes. Eventually the phone rings. Kevin had been spotted, stuck on a flat roof by someone who had a leaflet put through her door who had not realised he was trapped. I wept with relief. On getting him home we saw he had a nasty bite on his tail and required antibiotics for that to heal. \u201cKeep him in for a week,\u201d said Dale, our vet. Music to my ears. I hoped Stockholm syndrome would make Kevin love me. Stockholm syndrome is where a hostage develops a bond with their captor. Humans are pack animals and naturally create attachments and they may do it with whoever is around \u2013 even when that someone is holding them prisoner. Perhaps Stockholm syndrome is relevant to cats as well. To some extent, it seems to work: I am the recipient of many friendly head butts and sitting-on-lap sessions during his captivity. \u201cCan I keep him in for ever?\u201d I asked Dale when it was time for a check-up. That would be cruel, I am told. He is a wild animal that chooses to live with you. So Mr Kinky Tail, aka Bonzo Boots, aka Kevin (one cat can attract a lot of names) once more roams free. Since the flat-roof episode, he has been relatively good. It is not that he is a reformed character, he will still make a dash for any open door. But I\u2019m delighted because in the night it is me he chooses to wake up so that I can admire his latest kill; it is my feet he wants to practise his biting on, and it\u2019s my lap he needs to stretch out his tube-like body on when he is soaking wet. I weaned myself off indifferent men in my 20s and found a loving one, but a cat I adore whose affection and approval I must work for is a force I cannot resist. Now if you\u2019ll excuse me, I must get the chicken livers to room temperature in case he comes home for lunch."
"29||How do you talk to kids about death?My three-year-old daughter is worried about dying. She tells us one morning that she\u2019s going to die when she turns 18. Maybe to her, 18 is how I feel about turning 90 \u2013 that\u2019s properly old. Later, I ask what is worrying her about dying. She doesn\u2019t know. She\u2019s three. She can\u2019t quite articulate what it is that\u2019s bothering her. We\u2019re sitting in her room, getting ready for nursery. I\u2019m trying and failing to brush her hair. She\u2019s trying her best to not yelp in pain as I drag a brush through her curls. I look up and see the small photo of my mum that sits on her shelf. My sister gave it to me to put in my daughter\u2019s room around the time she was born. Mum died in 2011 and it devastated our family. She talked a lot about grandchildren, so it feels sad that she won\u2019t be around to meet them. I start to worry that the photo is the thing that\u2019s making my kid obsess about dying. She likes to run through various members of our family. She wants to know who my siblings are and how they are related to her, who her cousins are, who her grandparents are. She\u2019ll ask me who my dad is, who my sister is and then make the connection with who they are to her. When she first asked me where my mum was, I was taken aback. I didn\u2019t initially know how to answer her. On the one hand, I hate it when parents do saccharine lies to their kids: they\u2019re on holiday, they live on a farm far away, they\u2019re having a long sleep. On the other, my kid\u2019s three. She won\u2019t really understand about death. I chose to be honest. I told her: \u201cMy mum isn\u2019t around any more. She\u2019s dead. She would have loved you very much.\u201d My daughter then asked me: \u201cDo you miss your mum?\u201d \u201cYes,\u201d I said. \u201cIt makes me feel sad she is not here.\u201d After that, my daughter kept asking where Mum was and whether I felt sad. One day, she said: \u201cWhat happens when we die?\u201d I told her that it meant we weren\u2019t around any more. \u201cI don\u2019t want to die,\u201d she said. I think she has an existential dread when it comes to death. It\u2019s not so much about the dying, it\u2019s about the simply not being there, the void created by your absence. It\u2019s a lot for a three-year-old to take in. A visit to an Egyptian exhibition at Bristol Museum further confused her, because the mummies and the coffins and the death rituals that were explained to her didn\u2019t really answer her question about where my mum was. How do you talk to kids about death? There are some great books that help you talk about grief and loss with them. I like how Michael Rosen\u2019s Sad Book tries to encapsulate the emotion of sadness and demystify it, make the reader feel like it is OK to feel sad, because we all do. Oliver Jeffers\u2019s The Heart and the Bottle is another tear-jerker about loss and dealing with the death of a grandparent. Both of the books help kids navigate the emotions around loss and bereavement. The particular issue I seem to have is that my mum has been dead for a while. How do you functionally explain death to a child who has no emotional attachment to the dead person, because they didn\u2019t know them? Maybe that\u2019s the wrong question entirely, but it\u2019s one I keep circling back to. Mostly because I grieve for my mother every day and I wear my pain at her death very overtly on my sleeve. My daughter, being empathetic, can sense that that picture of my mum is important to me, but how does she make a connection with someone she only knows in the abstract? These conversations we have with kids around death need to be tangible. And while I work out the best way to talk about it with my child, she\u2019s still doing her own version of processing the very concept of death by checking in with me about what it even means. While death is something we\u2019ll all experience in some way, is three years old too early to be dealing with the preciousness of life?"
"29||Liv Langma bike review: \u2018We should not shrink or pink women\u2019s bikes\u2019Liv Langma Price \u00a31,799 Frame carbon Gears Shimano Ultegra 11-speed Wheels Giant P-R2 Bonnie Tu is often called the \u201cGodmother of Cycling\u201d and her ferocious work ethic and infectious charm mean she has long been a persuasive and passionate advocate of getting more women into cycling. She\u2019s also chairwoman of the Giant global group, one of the largest bike brands, and the founder of Liv Cycling, which sells bikes designed and built by women to be ridden by women. This Thursday is also International Women\u2019s Day and Liv has just launched the new lightweight Langma road bike so it seems the perfect moment to ask her a few questions about women\u2019s cycling. Martin: Why was it important to create Liv \u2013 a brand for women that makes bikes designed by women? Bonnie: It is only a female cyclist who can know the needs of a female cyclist. It takes a female cyclist to understand what makes a ride painful or uncomfortable, and what will make a woman feel more relaxed. It needs to come from a personal experience, so it has got to be designed by women. Martin: How often do you ride a bike, is it every morning? Bonnie: Oh no no no. I have too many 8am meetings. If I do cycle to the office it takes me so long that I\u2019d miss the meeting. But I do try to cycle at least once a week. Martin: How far is your office from your home? Bonnie: 40km. Martin: 40km! No wonder you are late. I hope you don\u2019t ride back home in the evening. Do you have a favourite bike and which ride do you feel most proud of? Bonnie: That\u2019s easy \u2013 the Envie or this new Langma. Martin: It would have to be one of yours. Bonnie: Yes, but they are great bikes. Also, I love the Envie because the first time I ever rode one, I set out without a destination target. I just rode and rode. Before I knew it I was already more than 30km away. I stopped for a coffee and then slowly came back. So my first day I rode more than 60km. I was so impressed with myself. Martin: Do you see the bicycle as a machine of empowerment for women? Bonnie: Yes, definitely. Cycling is a sport that brings such freedom. It is bonding and social. It brings people of all sorts together. You can do it at any level, and if you practise and commit to it, you can become really good. Martin: Do you think we\u2019ve seen the end of \u201cpink\u201d bicycles for women? Bonnie: No, not yet, because our friends, competitors in the bicycle industry, don\u2019t take female cyclists seriously. They still think: \u201cShrink it, pink it, flower it.\u201d You know, while I was in Bristol recently, my son pointed out a pink bike and said: \u201cOh, is that a female bicycle?\u201d I said: \u201cSon, let me tell you that it\u2019s not. It is only the colour.\u201d The last thing that makes a bicycle female is that it is pink. Martin: Can you do any bike tricks? Bonnie: When I was in high school, I could ride \u201chands off\u201d. I don\u2019t know why, but now I can\u2019t. I think maybe it must be age. I\u2019m 65 now! Get your numbers up The Wahoo Elemnt Bolt GPS bike computer is used by Peter Sagan. Need we add anything else? It\u2019s also fully aerodynamic! The unique design creates an integrated system of computer and mount which results in a highly slippery unit. Equipped with Bluetooth Smart and ANT+ dual-band technology, the Elemnt Bolt will pair with all of your cycling sensors. It also works with a free companion app which allows you to set up your data fields, customise profiles, track performance and share ride data \u2013 no more confusing menus! Plus, programmable LED QuickLook indicators provide a quick way to see if you\u2019re on pace with important performance metrics such as speed, heart rate and power. It costs \u00a3199.99 and is available from wahoofitness.com Email Martin at martin.love@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @MartinLove166"
"21||Mercedes-Benz E350d All-Terrain preview: \u2018A mud-squelching delight\u2019Mercedes-Benz E350d All-Terrain Price \u00a353,880 Top speed 155mph 0-62 6.2 seconds MPG 42 CO2 179g/km The overflow carpark was just that \u2013 a patch of scrub overflowing with ankle-deep, wheel-squelching mud. But today that was just the carpark I\u2019d hoped for. Rather than an awkward 8-point reverse and retreat, in we jumped, courtesy of Mercedes\u2019 new swagged-up estate. You may be familiar with this style of car. Audi, Volvo, Skoda and others all make a version. You pump up the suspension, add some body cladding to the wheel arches and sills and give it a rugged grille. You don\u2019t want it to look too butch. We haven\u2019t gone roid-crazy down at the gym. We\u2019re in shape. We\u2019ve been working out, but that\u2019s it. Then, to top it all off, you give it an omnipotent name \u2013 the All-Terrain. The off-road capability isn\u2019t ferocious. A normal Merc E-Class estate could have handled the overflowing car park. But the All-Terrain has presence which gives it an intoxicating allure. The ride is sumptuous thanks to its Air Body Control suspension which gives it another 29mm of height, though that is partly made boosted by the ginormous tyres. By your left hand you\u2019ll find a Dynamic Select controller which allows you to choose the perfect set-up for the terrain you are about to tame. Clearly I chose the All-Terrain mode which boosted my ground clearance by a further 20mm. Mud, gravel, sand, snow\u2026 eat your heart out. There\u2019s also a setting above that for full-on rock-crawling, with a maximum of 156mm of ground clearance. Having waded out of the swamp, select comfort, eco or sport and the car hunkers down to create a more aero profile and off you go \u2013 the nine-speed Tronic gearbox as smooth as ice cream. Email Martin at martin.love@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @MartinLove166"
"29||David Baddiel: \u2018Social media is just people saying stuff \u2013 I\u2019m used to hecklers\u2019I\u2019d describe myself as grounded and self-aware. And I think the backbone to that is my commitment to the truth. I live by one moral principle, really: to live as honestly as possible. I\u2019m quite obsessive-compulsive about honesty and have a physical discomfort for any kind of untruth. As a performer, I find myself drawn more and more to true storytelling. The motto I live by is, \u2018The truth is always complex\u2019 \u2013 as in the truth is in the detail and the detail is complicated. My way of switching off is going on social media. It\u2019s easy \u2013 it\u2019s just people saying stuff. Charlie Brooker once did a list of the greatest video games ever and he put Twitter at the top of the list. It\u2019s enormously distracting, but it is just a game. I spend a lot of time on social media and people ask me if the abuse I get is upsetting, but working in comedy has built up my skin \u2013 I\u2019m used to hecklers. Their interest is in being heard and turning the volume up on themselves. The very nature of social media is people waving the flag of self. I tend to feed the trolls because it gives me material for my work. I\u2019m sometimes taken aback by the racist and antisemitic abuse I get, but most of the time I\u2019ll get angry for a second, and then remind myself, \u2018This is material.\u2019 The trick is not to be too reactive. I\u2019ve been aware of my own mortality since I was 12. I think it was Martin Amis who said before the age of 40 you can\u2019t imagine your own death and after the age of 40 you don\u2019t think of anything else. I don\u2019t know if that\u2019s completely true, but I do feel, at 53, that my work and family life are coloured by the idea of death. My dad has dementia, so I monitor my own memory in a way that other people may not. As an atheist, I don\u2019t believe in an afterlife so I feel I need to fit in as much as I can while I\u2019m here. David Baddiel\u2019s stand-up show My Family: Not the Sitcom is currently on a UK tour (davidbaddiel.com)"
"29||From the archive: the joy of friendship, 1973Within the vast, murky spectrum of relationships, friendship has often been cast aside as the less sexy cousin of romantic partnerships. But what are the secret ingredients to the perfect friendship? Well, the Observer Magazine from December 1973 endeavoured to find out. First, we should all move nearer to a postbox. According to the American psychologist Leon Festinger, those who lived within a few metres of one were more popular. This is because of increased social interaction \u2013 if you\u2019re constantly posting letters, you\u2019re more likely to bump into people on the street, and presumably bond over stamps. Secondly, it makes it a lot easier if you can agree on everything. \u2018When people agree with us it at least suggests that our views are not entirely misguided, at any rate in someone\u2019s eyes.\u2019 The journalist Stephen Duff stresses the importance of mutual political opinions and offers a few suggestions if one gets chatting with someone at a party only to discover your new acquaintance is, God forbid, a Conservative: \u2018This is a convenient moment for you to go and refill your sherry glass, to reach for the peanuts, to circulate and join other company.\u2019 Frances Partridge, who grew up in the Bloomsbury group, a set of intellectuals and artists known for their liberal political views and penchant for spirited debate, suggests that a bit of bitchiness is actually just the ticket to healthy friendships: \u2018In those Bloomsbury days, many scathing remarks were made by one about another. But one understood that there would be no relationships in a climate of censorship. Gossip was not resented, and it should not be.\u2019 So there we have it, the secret to friendship is really quite simple \u2013 move very close to a postbox, keep your political opinions to yourself and slag your friends off every now and then."
"29||A quick note to say thank you\u2026 to the ice-cream seller, who talks to meI\u2019ve got multiple sclerosis, diagnosed in 2012, and a brain tumour, though it\u2019s too dangerous to operate on it. I live alone, my parents are in their 80s and my only sibling has autism. I\u2019m often pretty lonely. If I don\u2019t go out I don\u2019t speak to anyone for days on end, so I force myself to get out and about: I use a wheelchair at home, and I\u2019ve got a mobility scooter for going out. There\u2019s one person I can guarantee will chat with me: the guy who runs the ice-cream van down by the river. We talk about everything; he\u2019s a mate, and I know he worries about me if he doesn\u2019t see me for a few days. You never really think about how much you rely on the people around you for support: you imagine there\u2019s some big support network out there that the state should be providing, but at the end of the day it comes down to all of us, to ordinary people, being friendly and making time for one another. He makes a huge difference to my life, the man in the ice cream van. A bit of chat, and the chance to have a laugh with someone, goes a very, very long way in a life like mine. Is there someone you\u2019d like to say thank you to? Write to us at magazine@observer.co.uk"
"23||The reinvention of syrahTesco Finest Hawkes Bay Syrah, New Zealand 2016 (\u00a310) Why do some winemakers put syrah on the label and others shiraz when the two names refer to the same grape variety? Like most things in wine, it\u2019s a decision that can be driven by aesthetics, marketing, or a bit of both. Roughly speaking, syrah tends to be used by winemakers who make a slightly leaner, more sinewy, peppery style \u00e0 la France\u2019s Northern Rh\u00f4ne Valley; shiraz by winemakers looking to the beefier, brawnier, richer styles of South Australia. In reality, most wines made from the grape fit on a continuum, and fashion often determines nomenclature. Whatever the reason, there\u2019s definitely been a move towards the \u201csyrah\u201d style (and name) in the New World in recent years. And the results are frequently excellent, as in the refreshing, black pepper-seasoned dark berries of Tesco\u2019s impressive version from the Hawkes Bay region. Vi\u00f1a Falernia Syrah, Elqui Valley, Chile 2013 (\u00a39.99, Great Western Wine) If Hawkes Bay \u2013 and specifically the Gimblett Gravels district and producers such as Elephant Hill and Craggy Range \u2013 is New Zealand\u2019s best spot for syrah, in Chile it\u2019s the far north. The most extreme example (and a wine unlike anything in Chile) is made in the Atacama Desert by the Ventisquero winery, where the syrah mixes with merlot in a light, savoury-spicy wine that goes by the enigmatic name Tara Red Wine 2 (hard to find in the UK, but worth trying if you ever come across a bottle). A little further south, in the Elqui Valley, home to astronomers, hippies and the producers of local spirit pisco before the wine industry discovered its potential, the vivid, perfumed, polished Vi\u00f1edos Alcohuaz Tococo Syrah 2015 (\u00a330.95, Berry Bros &amp; Rudd) just about justifies its price, while Falernia\u2019s meaty, liquoricey example is always stunning value. Kunin Santa Barbara County Syrah, California, USA 2015 (\u00a328, Roberson Wine) Both South Africa and California have had mixed results with syrah/shiraz in the past, despite having regions where the conditions seemed perfectly suited to the variety. It\u2019s a sign of the improvement \u2013 and change in stylistic direction \u2013 led by the two countries\u2019 best producers that they are now making syrah (rarely shiraz) which is every bit as good as the smart Rh\u00f4ne addresses that are their obvious (and acknowledged) inspiration. From the Cape, Reyneke Organic Syrah, Stellenbosch 2015 (\u00a316.99, Waitrose), Mullineux Syrah, Swartland 2015 (\u00a327.25, Berry Bros &amp; Rudd) and Lismore Syrah, Western Cape 2016 (\u00a329, oddbins.com) all capture the moreish, elusive syrah mix of dark savoury spicy meatiness, elegance and succulence. And in the cool (in both senses) Santa Barbara County, the Kunin family\u2019s succulent, smoky black olive and blackberry tapanade is the essence of the New California. Follow David on Twitter @Daveydaibach"
"29||Ready, steady, grow: the planting season beginsIn like a lion, out like a lamb: it\u2019s the time of warming sun and soil and sowing seed. March is the start of spring (meteorological spring 1 March; vernal equinox 20 March), when smart gardeners prepare vegetable beds for summer, autumn, even winter (I get over-excited and don\u2019t always manage the last). Beetroot, kale, leeks, lettuce, onions, radish, spinach and onion sets can all be sown outside now. I also like a salad mix. Try, say, two parts rocket to one of an oriental mustard \u2013 a red and a green mizuna: colourful and beautiful with bite. March is the month of the ancient veg. Peas are thought to be the oldest cultivated crop, discovered in the ruins of Troy. Broad beans have been grown since neolithic times. And carrots were first sown by Egyptians and refined by Dutch seed breeders. All are ready now. Just don\u2019t rush. Carrots will germinate at 5C, but grow twice as fast at 10. Try speedy broad beans such as \u2018Express\u2019 and \u2018Witkiem\u2019, and sow the first of the peas. Re-sow them every few weeks throughout spring. I grow Basque tear peas, which can be hard to find except from swaps, but are prolific and the best-tasting pea. At the start of spring I will also sow nasturtium for colour and calendula for companion planting. Now\u2019s the time to plant dahlias for autumn flowering, and to prepare a bed for winter cauliflower, cabbages and leeks, if you have room. I don\u2019t, but I will sow a kale mix and chards, returning to rainbowed \u2018Bright Lights\u2019 and reliable \u2018Fordhook Giant\u2019, my favourite savoyed Swiss. Potatoes were traditionally planted at Easter, but it is late this year (on 1 April) so I would get them in this month. Somehow a vegetable bed seems oddly empty without a few new potatoes, to be lifted just before lunch. Allan Jenkins\u2019s Plot 29 (4th Estate, \u00a314.99) is out now. Order it for \u00a312.74 from guardianbookshop.com"
"10||'No one does self-deprecating better': Trump tries standup at Gridiron dinnerJared Kushner\u2019s security clearance (or lack of it), Melania\u2019s love for him (or lack of it), and even the president\u2019s hair (or lack of it): nothing was out of bounds on Saturday night as Donald Trump tried his hand at comedy at an annual dinner. \u201cNobody does self-deprecating humor better than I do. It\u2019s not even close,\u201d Trump told the Gridiron Dinner, a gathering of political allies, opponents, and the Washington press corps. \u201cI was very excited to receive this invitation and ruin your evening in person. That\u2019s why I accepted.\u201d Trump skipped last year\u2019s dinner. The dinner, now in its 133rd year, traced its history to 1885, the year president Grover Cleveland refused to attend. Every president since has come to at least one. \u201cRest assured, Mr President, this crowd is way bigger than Cleveland\u2019s,\u201d said David Lightman, president of the Gridiron club and foundation and congressional editor for McClatchy News. After musical sketches about the president, Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, Trump closed out the evening with a range of one-liners: \u2013 On his son-in-law, Jared Kushner: \u201cWe were late tonight because Jared could not get through security.\u201d \u2013 On attorney general Jeff Sessions: \u201cI offered him a ride over and he recused himself. What are you going to do?\u201d \u2013 On vice-president Mike Pence: \u201cI really am proud to call him the apprentice. But lately he\u2019s showing a particularly keen interest in the news these days. He is asking \u2018has he been impeached yet?\u2019 I don\u2019t like that.\u201d \u2013 On former chief strategist Steve Bannon: \u201cThat guy leaked more than the Titanic.\u201d \u2013 On The New York Times: \u201cI\u2019m a New York icon. You\u2019re a New York icon. And the only difference is I still own my buildings.\u201d Appearing to be a good sport at the dinner \u2013 he laughed and applauded at times. Trump also drew in wife Melania in a remark about recent White House departures. \u201cSo many people have been leaving the White House. It\u2019s invigorating since you want turnover. I like chaos. It really is good,\u201d he said. \u201cWho\u2019s going to be the next to leave? [Trump adviser] Steve Miller or Melania?\u201d Trump also raised the not-necessarily-comedy-gold subject of the nuclear standoff with North Korea, saying: \u201cI won\u2019t rule out direct talks with Kim Jong-un. I just won\u2019t.\u201d He added: \u201cAs far as the risk of dealing with a madman is concerned, that\u2019s his problem, not mine.\u201d By Gridiron tradition, rebuttals came from one Republican, Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas, and one Democrat, New Orleans mayor Mitch Landrieu. Cotton made light of what he called the source of his personality: the common touch of Harvard, the sensitivity of the army, and the personal touch of Dick Cheney. On the Russia investigation, he said, \u201cEveryone knows the Trump campaign couldn\u2019t collude with the RNC in Pennsylvania.\u201d The only senator in his 30s said he was looking for a role model and \u201cthe search continues\u201d. With an eye on the president, Landrieu said: \u201cWe\u2019re both overweight and balding. I just have an easier time admitting it.\u201d Noting that Trump had a lonely job, the mayor remarked, \u201cI understand lonely because I\u2019m a Democrat from the South.\u201d The New Orleans official also observed, \u201cNo matter how many times we say it, we don\u2019t drain the swamps either.\u201d The event was attended by at least eight members of Trump\u2019s cabinet, six senators, four House members, and presidential relatives-turned-advisers Ivanka Trump and Kushner, the foundation said in a statement. By tradition, the evening\u2019s musical entertainment revolved around musical skits and takeoffs of well-known songs performed by journalists pretending to be newsmakers. A cast member playing House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi turned to song I\u2019m Against It to explain her attitude toward Trump: \u201cI don\u2019t know what Trump has to say/It makes no difference anyway/Whatever it is, we\u2019re against it/Even if our own side once professed it/We\u2019re against it.\u201d A cast member playing Hillary Clinton offered her version of You\u2019re So Vain, the title referring to her, but the lyrics aimed at the president: \u201cYou walked into my West Wing/My White House or so I thought/Your tie strategically dropped below your belt/Your hair it was apricot.\u201d The Gridiron Club and Foundation contributes to college scholarships and journalistic organizations. Active membership is limited to 65 Washington-based journalists. The organization said the event attracted about 660 journalists, media executives, lawmakers, administration officials and military officers."
"9||Barnaby Joyce says he had no choice but to discuss paternity of partner's childBarnaby Joyce has defended his decision to publicly cast doubt on the paternity of the child his former staffer and now partner, Vikki Campion, is expecting in April, claiming they had \u201cno choice\u201d but to tell their story. In an interview with Fairfax Media on Sunday the former deputy prime minister suggested the identity of the biological father was \u201ca grey area\u201d but said it made no difference because he intended to raise the boy as his own. On Saturday Fairfax had quoted Joyce as denying the paternity rumours. \u201cIt\u2019s mine, on the record, there it is,\u201d he told journalist Mark Kenny. \u201cAnd can I say, even if it wasn\u2019t, I wouldn\u2019t care, I\u2019d still go through this, I\u2019d still love him.\u201d On Sunday Joyce said in a statement that the media had continued to pursue the issue of his relationship despite his resignation. He cited \u201cpaparazzi waiting for us at our gate at the airport on Friday\u201d and the upcoming appearance of Daily Telegraph journalist Sharri Markson on ABC\u2019s Q&amp;A. \u201cMedia had also made requests around the issue which was printed today,\u201d he said on Sunday. \u201cTherefore we felt we had no choice but to tell the story.\u201d \u201cDespite a flood of other allegations by media and political types being used as a proxy to attack us for being together, none of those allegations has been proven true.\u201d Joyce \u2013 who resigned after weeks of fallout over his affair \u2013 used the Fairfax interviews to attack media reports that categorically state the baby is his, claiming that the Daily Telegraph had not asked that question before publishing its story featuring a pregnant Campion. The authors of the Telegraph story responded by releasing an email showing Joyce\u2019s spokesman was asked \u201cis Mr Joyce the father of the baby and when is the baby due\u201d. In the Sunday interview Joyce complained the media\u2019s treatment of Campion was an \u201coutrageous\u201d breach of her privacy, and also revealed the pair were physically apart for almost all of the time when conception occurred and described the question of paternity as \u201ca bit of a grey area\u201d. The report stated that Joyce volunteered the comments and Campion was present for some of the interview. On Sunday Malcolm Turnbull told reporters in Sydney he didn\u2019t have \u201cany comment to make\u201d about the issues, which he said were matters for Joyce and Campion. The former Nationals leader and Turnbull maintain Joyce did not breach the ministerial code of conduct because Campion was not his partner while she was in his employ. Campion left Joyce\u2019s office in April. After the revelation of the affair, Turnbull changed the ministerial code of conduct to ban sexual relationships between ministers and their staff in future. The updated code does not ban extra-marital affairs or having children out of wedlock. While the Labor opposition refrained from directly making criticisms of Joyce\u2019s personal life, the revelation of the affair led to scrutiny of the fact he declared he was living rent-free in Armidale in a townhouse belonging to his friend and local businessman Greg Maguire. Media reports examined whether Joyce had breached the code in other respects such as his use of taxpayer-funded travel but Joyce maintained the \u201clitany of allegations\u201d had not been sustained. The revelation of a sexual harassment complaint against him \u2013 the substance of which Joyce denies \u2013 provided the catalyst for his resignation. In Senate estimates last week officials from the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet revealed an inquiry into whether Joyce had breached the rules by the department head was dropped when Joyce resigned. A separate Independent Parliamentary Expenses Authority investigation into his use of expenses is ongoing."
"6||AFLW: Dogs defeat Pies to go game clear on top of the ladder \u2013 as it happenedLots of feeling in that one, and in the end quite a tight game with plenty of competitive spirit shown by the Pies who have had their best two weeks for the season. Things could have been different, with Bernadi lining up for goal in the final minute before some ill-discipline from her teammates resulted in a reverse free-kick. That reflected the fierce nature of a game in which two players were reported\u2013 Steph Choicci, Collingwood\u2019s captain, and Dogs defender and tagger Libby Birch. The Bulldogs dominated inside 50s (30-22), contested possessions (94-79) and marks inside 50 (six to one). Tackles (59-37) and hitouts (43-16), however, went the way of Collingwood. Blackburn starred for the Dogs with 17 disposals, while Brooke Lochland continued her fine form from last week with another two goals. For the Pies, Edwards kicked two, and Sarah D\u2019Arcy and Jasmine Garner had 13 disposals each. The Western Bulldogs now go one game clear on the ladder, and look increasingly assured of a spot in the grand final. Whether they host it or not will depend on percentage, which their 73 point win against Carlton last week might take care of. Apparently the Gabba is booked if the Lions finish on top, but right now they\u2019ll just be hoping to finish ahead of Melbourne in second. Blackburn says today\u2019s tight contest was a \u201cmuch-needed challenge\u201d for the team, while she has been impressed with her teammates\u2019 response to so many injures: \u201clast year we really relied on Katie [Brennan] in particular, but we\u2019ve done much better as a team [to cover injuries] this year\u201d. Says Dogs aren\u2019t thinking about or even mentioning the grand final, just focusing on GWS next week. Wise captain\u2019s words! The Doggies now belt out a passionate rendition of \u2018Daughters of the West\u2019 on the field \u2013 a good note for us to finish on. I hope you enjoyed this AFLW live blog, and that I see you again here soon. If you\u2019re an AFLW fan, stay tuned for my wrap-up of the round tomorrow! Q4 00:45 Collingwood 6.5 (41) v Western Bulldogs 7.7 (49) Drama, drama. Bernadi earns a shot on goal inside 40m, directly in front, but ill-discipline from her teammates means Hannah Scott takes the reversed free-kick. That\u2019ll cost them a shot at the win... Q4 01:41 Collingwood 6.5 (41) v Western Bulldogs 7.7 (49) What an athlete Conti is, clears the ball from defence and is the first in the forward line. Will be a serious star for the Dogs. Like this tweet from Richard Hinds - Molloy is one of the very few women young enough to have come through uninterrupted football pathways from childhood. Inspiring view of the future. Late goal Bernadi makes things interesting - just eight points! Q4 03:55 Collingwood 5.5 (35) v Western Bulldogs 7.7 (49) Molly has been switched forward and finds herself all on her own. She splits the middle. What a player. Think the Pies could have pushed her forward earlier - that\u2019s where she played for Diamond Creek before being drafted, so she\u2019s very comfortable there (and tied with Katie Brennan for most goals in the VFL!) Runs back to defence, which is an odd one. Speaking of Molloy she\u2019s back in the forward line but misses the snap. Surely needs to be pushed forward more. Q4 ?* Collingwood 4.4 (28) v Western Bulldogs 7.7 (49) Careful build-up from the Dogs after a congested start to the quarter. Booming entry into 50 finds Lochland after she puts a burst of speed on McIntosh. She\u2019s full of confidence, her shot is touched but Nicole Callinan judges it well off the pack and boots a goal. That should be the game for the Dogs. *time clock is frozen! Q4 10:19 Collingwood 4.4 (28) v Western Bulldogs 6.7 (43) Barden has the chance to put more pressure on the Dogs, but she misses narrowly. Blackburn takes the kick-out, adding to the impression that she\u2019s been literally everywhere today. Brilliant game from her, has led admirably in Brennan\u2019s absence. Get the impression she\u2019s grown into the captaincy. Q4 13:01* Collingwood 4.3 (27) v Western Bulldogs 6.7 (43) Jasmine Garner looks good in defence - then again she\u2019s good anywhere on the ground. She also takes 50m (the fourth of the game) as her opponent steps over the mark. She bombs it long and King manages a snap - but it\u2019s to the right. Emma King has had 30 hit-outs today, and the Pies 25 to the Doggies\u2019 10, but the Dogs have sharked most of those. *clock is counting down in the final quarter. Three-quarter-time Collingwood 4.2 (26) v Western Bulldogs 6.7 (43) This game is set for a great finish, Dogs have led throughout and should probably be further in front given the number of inside 50s (27-10!) they\u2019ve generated, while they\u2019re also on top with contested possessions (81-56) but the Pies just won\u2019t go away. The intensity/ferocity hasn\u2019t let up either, with both sides giving everything to the contest. Q3 00:30 Collingwood 4.2 (26) v Western Bulldogs 6.7 (43) Commentators persisting in using \u201cthe lasso\u201d for the last-touch free-kick. Honestly not sure who came up with that signal, but surely there was a better one. Mo Hope with a banana inside the 50 gets the crowd up and going, but it\u2019s off target. Not much time left, but Pies are pressing. Q3 02:57 Collingwood 4.1 (25) v Western Bulldogs 6.6 (42) Good to see Gogos back on the ground, who must be OK as far as the shoulder goes. Dogs exhibit some really nice passing to go end-to-end, before Lochland is wrapped up by Molloy. Plenty of congestion in the Dogs\u2019 forward line, Kearney is hit high but the umpire misses it, and Collingwood take a free. Fans not happy. Looks like a beautiful day in Moe. Q3 06:25 Collingwood 4.1 (25) v Western Bulldogs 6.6 (42) Blackburn didn\u2019t have to wait long to get one back, Molloy tries to find Jess Duffin deep in defence, and Toogood swoops in to spoil, before finding Blackburn in the goalsquare. She looks exhausted, the Dogs\u2019 captain, and has had 13 disposals, nine kicks, four handballs, a mark and a goal. Q3 07:25 Collingwood 4.1 (25) v Western Bulldogs 5.6 (36) Really clever play by Conti, who shows some of her basketball skills with a smooth pick-up off the ground and then shows poise to find Blackburn with a cute pass. She\u2019s on an angle in the 50, is pushed as she kicks it and earns a free. It\u2019s a tough angle, and she misses everything. Q3 03:30 Collingwood 4.1 (25) v Western Bulldogs 5.6 (36) Caitlyn Edwards hits back with her second for the Pies. Dogs continue to look dominant, but the Pies just won\u2019t go away. Nice and high-scoring, attacking start to the quarter, just as the game began. Q3 00:50 Collingwood 3.0 (18) v Western Bulldogs 5.6 (36) Perfect start for the Dogs, Kearney bursts through the middle with a penetrating kick and finds Lochland for her second goal. Amazing to think Lochland hardly hit the scoreboard last season, and is now on top of the goalkicking after the seven-goal effort last week. Just heard that she had \u201cD\u201d, \u201cK\u201d and \u201cI\u201d on her hand last week to recognise her injured teammates in Daria Bannister, Katie Brennan and Isabel Huntington. Other results this round In case you\u2019re wondering about the other results from this round, Adelaide were victorious over Carlton, 55-20 at Norwood Oval on Saturday night in a seriously impressive performance given Erin Phillips barely played (and was taken off at half-time with a small recurrence of her right quad injury \u2013 watch this space for how serious that one is). Earlier on Saturday, the GWS Giants continued their much-improved form against the Dockers, winning 39-21 in Perth. Courtney Gum was dominant again with 16 disposals, while they had six individual goal-scorers in an impressive team performance. On Friday night, meanwhile, the Demons triumphed by a goal over grand final aspirants the Lions, to make the lead-up to the grand final very interesting indeed. Don\u2019t forget that there is no finals series per se; the top two sides automatically qualify for the grand final, meaning percentage is all-important, while the draw between the Crows and Giants last week could prove a critical blow for both. At the moment the ladder sees the Bulldogs on top (win or lose today), followed by Brisbane on 12 points (121.9%) and Melbourne (12 points, 102.7%). Then we have: GWS (10 points, 102.7%), Adelaide (10 points, 98.8%), Fremantle (eight points, 80.4%), Carlton (8 points, 50.5%) and Collingwood (four points, 100%). I\u2019d say it\u2019s a three-team race between Bulldogs, Brisbane and Melbourne, but don\u2019t rule out GWS/Adelaide. Exciting season. Of course I\u2019ll write about all this and more in my weekly AFLW column, which will be up tomorrow! This is really the story so far, Dogs dominant but inefficient up forward, Collingwood well in the game given their own ability to capitalise on forward entries. Some excellent footage has emerged of that Emma Kearney/Britt Bonnici exchange, including a little cameo by Sarah Olle. Half-time Collingwood 3.0 (18) v Western Bulldogs 4.6 (30) Well, that ends a seriously fiery half, with two reports and three 50m penalties. No love lost between these clubs, it seems! This is a very important game for the Bulldogs in particular, who can put a game\u2019s gap between themselves and Brisbane and Melbourne (second and third on the ladder). Ellie Blackburn on TV: \u201cwe\u2019re trying to be respectful as we can to them and try not to get caught up with what they\u2019re trying to do to us\u201d. Burn! Q2 01:00 Collingwood 3.0 (18) v Western Bulldogs 4.6 (30) We just had potentially our first full-blown AFLW melee - Emma Kearney gets dragged over the boundary line by Bonnici with a rough tackle which ends in Kearney falling through some of the commentary team\u2019s chairs on the boundary line. Kearney isn\u2019t pleased, and pushes Bonnici back, before a melee ensues followed by a 50m penalty to the Dogs. Conti manages another point for the Dogs, but still can\u2019t get that elusive first goal. Q2 03:20 Collingwood 3.0 (18) v Western Bulldogs 4.4 (28) The Dogs will be disappointed with this quarter - the Pies have managed several goals against the run of play, with the Bulldogs dominating the inside 50 count. Looks like Gogos may have injured her shoulder in a tackle - looks in a fair bit of pain as she leaves the ground. Q2 05:50 Collingwood 3.0 (18) v Western Bulldogs 4.4 (28) Ouch, Libby Birch collects Mo hope with a wayward spoil. It\u2019s a fist straight to the head, and she gets reported after Chiocci was reported for a head-high tackle on her. This is a very physical game. , and now Amelia Barden kicks the Pies\u2019 third goal with a floater. Back to 10 points after three inside 50s for three goals. Much more efficient than the Dogs! Q2 07:50 Collingwood 2.0 (12) v Western Bulldogs 4.4 (28) What a couple of marks there from the Dogs. Brooke Lochland takes a one-hander with strength, and then passes off to Conti who takes a contested overhead grab for a shot on goal, but it\u2019s wide and out of bounds on the full. Still, Groves\u2019 choice to play Conti up forward looks a good one. Q2 09:07 Collingwood 2.0 (12) v Western Bulldogs 4.4 (28) Bonnici has now been shifted off Kearney to Blackburn, who has seven disposals already and looks ominous. Libby Birch has reappeared with a massive bandage on her head. This is a hard, tough, contested game. Lots of big hits and ferocious tackles. Speaking of, tough-nut Emma Kearney nominates for the ruck, doesn\u2019t go up, then wins a high free as the ball bounces into her arms. She thumps one long and guess who \u2013 Brooke Lochland \u2013 soccers one through cleverly as she stays down. Q2 11:50 Collingwood 2.0 (12) v Western Bulldogs 3.4 (22) Chloe Molloy with a don\u2019t argue through the midfield sets the Pies up for another foray forward. She\u2019s seriously impressive, Molloy. I know some have questioned why the Bulldogs took Izzy Huntington ahead of her, but I think Huntington will be equally as good if not better if she can get her knees right... Free-kick inside 50 goes to Caitlyn Edwards, who makes no mistake. Q2 13:20 Collingwood 1.0 (6) v Western Bulldogs 3.4 (22) Brittany Bonnici is running with Emma Kearney - looks like a heavy tag, but I\u2019ll back Kearney in to break it. Jaimee Lambert, who was very busy last week, has been fairly quiet against her old side. And yes, if you\u2019re wondering, Toogood is not a made-up name, Bonnie Toogood just happens to have the best surname in the AFLW. Quarter-time Collingwood 1.0 (6) v Western Bulldogs 3.4 (22) Great quarter by the Bulldogs who deserve the advantage on the scoreboard, with their wonderful form showing no sign of abating. Brooke Lochland is being well-held by Cecilia McIntosh after her record-breaking seven goals last week, but this is an impressive team performance. The Dogs have had 11 inside 50s to one! Leading disposals: Ellie Blackburn, Aasta O\u2019Connor and Jasmine Garner have five each. Q1 01:32 Collingwood 1.0 (6) v Western Bulldogs 3.3 (21) Aasta O\u2019Connor with a booming shot at goal splits the middle from 45m out, and it\u2019s another for the Dogs! Poor discipline from Collingwood, Lauren Tesoriero gives away the 50m for not returning the ball on the full, and pays the ultimate price. Q1 02:30 Collingwood 1.0 (6) v Western Bulldogs 2.3 (15) Clever centring kick by Utri hits up Jenna Bruton in the 50. Loving Utri\u2019s game so far, has to be one of the Doggies\u2019 best finds for the year. Bruton misses to the right, and another young star of the game Chloe Molloy takes the kick-out. Q1 04:10 Collingwood 1.0 (6) v Western Bulldogs 2.2 (14) Dogs peppering the goals but just the point to show for it so far. Emma Kearney almost makes the distance from 45m out, but it\u2019s marked on the last line. Interesting news this week that North Melbourne (who will enter the competition in 2019) are circling the Bulldogs star, offering her the captaincy and also potentially more money (the exact nature of pay deals hasn\u2019t been worked out for next season, but one idea being floated is that each time will have a salary of around $200,000 to spend as they will \u2013 possibly with a minimum and maximum pay rate specified). Meanwhile Monique Conti \u2013 another skilled dual-athlete (she\u2019s also a Melbourne Boomer) \u2013 lines up for goal from a tight angle, but it\u2019s touched over the line by Utri, who can\u2019t complete the mark. Q1 06:50 Collingwood 1.0 (6) v Western Bulldogs 2.0 (12) Six inside 50 entries to the Bulldogs to the one so far for the Pies. Dogs probably deserve a bigger lead, but this is a fairly high-scoring start in the context of the AFLW\u2019s infamous memo. Q1 09:30 Collingwood 1.0 (6) v Western Bulldogs 2.0 (12) Last round\u2019s rising star in Utri fires through another for the Dogs! Great steal off Jazzy Garner who is also in an unfamiliar position with the Pies, playing down back. Utri is an excellent hockey player - has only played a year of footy, like so many of these AFLW women. Incredible skill for such a small time in the game. Q1 11:20 Collingwood 1.0 (6) v Western Bulldogs 1.0 (6) Mo Hope with some nimble footwork evades her opponent and finds Meg Hutchins on the lead 40m out, but it\u2019s a 50m penalty which takes her right up to the goal-line. Not clear what for! Hutchins moving forward has been an experiment for the Pies, which seems to be working so far, and she nails the goal. Q1 13:50 Collingwood 0.0 (0) v Western Bulldogs 1.0 (6) Doggies hit the scoreboard first thanks to a brilliant burst of speed through the middle from stand-in captain Ellie Blackburn. A lovely long kick into the forward-line finds Bonnie Toogood who dribbles the ball through the goals. Cecilia McIntosh dives desperately but can\u2019t get a finger on it. Q1 13:50 Collingwood 0.0 (0) v Western Bulldogs 0.0 (0) Libby Birch gets a massive head knock from Collingwood captain Steph Chiocci in a fiery start to this game. Looked pretty nasty, and Chiocci has been reported. Chiocci has a history with the club, after she captained the Western Bulldogs for several years during \u2018exhibition match\u2019 period for women\u2019s football (prior to the establishment of AFLW). Birch thankfully runs off the ground after Bulldogs\u2019 ruckman Tiarna Ernst (also a doctor!) signalled frantically for the doctors. Quite the controversial banner from the Collingwood cheersquad, referencing the ongoing tension between much-loved women\u2019s football legend and ex-vice Bulldogs President Susan Alberti and club president Peter Gordon. Look for an improved Collingwood this week after they were fired up in Alice Springs against Melbourne, pulling off an upset win after a week of criticism directed at coach Wayne Siekman (namely, controversially, from former player Kate Sheahan, who is now Richmond\u2019s head of women\u2019s football). The Dogs meanwhile were on fire last week, posting a record-winning margin of 73 points against Carlton in the inaugural AFLW pride game (I was there, and have to say, the atmosphere was incredible, if surreal). You can read all about last week in my summary column of last round: We\u2019re all set for a classic day of country footy in Moe (which is in the Gippsland region of the LaTrobe Valley in Victoria, for those who don\u2019t know!) Looks like a decent crowd is building, even if there aren\u2019t any seats... Looks like some have travelled a fair way for this one. In Victoria, patrons take a V-Line to Traralgon and then get a bus to Moe. Welcome! Hello and welcome to Sunday\u2019s AFLW blog where I\u2019ll be giving you live updates from the Collingwood v Western Bulldogs clash in Moe (yes, you read that right, Moe!) I\u2019ll also update you on all the other results from this critical round as we go. Back shortly."
"9||$7bn pledge for Badgerys Creek airport rail link to Sydney's westThe federal and New South Wales governments will jointly fund a $7bn north-south rail link to connect Badgerys Creek airport to Sydney\u2019s rail network at St Marys, Malcolm Turnbull and Gladys Berejiklian have announced. The rail link is part of the western Sydney city deal unveiled by the two Coalition leaders in Sydney on Sunday, along with $150m for parkland facilities and plans for an \u201caerotropolis\u201d business park at North Bringelly. The prime minister told reporters that \u201cthe objective is to have the rail open and operating when the airport opens\u201d in 2026, describing it as part of the government\u2019s commitment to nation-building infrastructure. \u201cThe commitment is to build it as partners, to fund it 50-50 and we have substantial resources already budgeted for rail,\u201d he said. The full text of the city deal omits the cost of the railway, an estimate for which was provided by the prime minister\u2019s office. Both governments have committed $50m each to develop a business case for the rail line and to finalise a route and station locations. Turnbull suggested value capture could help pay for the rail project, the cost of which is expected to top $15bn when it is connected to Campbelltown and Leppington in Sydney\u2019s south-west. The rail line is designed to meet the goal of putting western Sydney residents within 30 minutes of up to 200,000 jobs to be located at North Bringelly. Connection to Sydney\u2019s central business district will take much longer, above the current commute time of one hour between St Marys and Central station on the western line. The NSW government will also establish rapid bus services from the metropolitan centres of Penrith, Liverpool and Campbelltown to the Badgerys Creek aerotropolis and to Western Sydney airport before it opens. The Badgerys Creek aerotropolis, part of which will include commonwealth land at North Bringelly, is a metro area adjacent to the western Sydney airport zoned for manufacturing, research, medical, education and commercial activities. The project will be overseen by an Aerotropolis Development Authority and the NSW government will establish an Investment Attraction office in Liverpool to encourage businesses to the area. Turnbull said that the western Sydney city deal represented a \u201cdifferent approach\u201d to planning because the two governments would \u201cput the plans and the infrastructure in first\u201d. \u201cFor too long we\u2019ve been allowing development to proceed in a relatively unplanned way and then people say \u2018oh dear we don\u2019t have the infrastructure we need, the rail we need\u2019.\u201d Labor\u2019s shadow infrastructure spokesman, Anthony Albanese, said Labor welcomed the rail project which he said was first proposed by Labor in March 2015 and federal Labor has already committed to funding. \u201cFederal and state Labor have long argued for a western Sydney rail link with a north-south line to boost productivity and improve the quality of life of residents of the region,\u201d Albanese and the state Labor leader, Luke Foley, said in a statement. The pair called on the Coalition to commit to link the rail line to the Macarthur region and extend it to Rouse Hill in the north-west and commence construction as soon as possible. Western Sydney, with a present population of about 2 million people, is expected to add another million by the early 2030s, a scoping study released with the plan reveals. Transport woes plague the region, due to a lack of connectivity on train lines and congested roads, the report\u2019s researchers found. About 300,000 residents commute outside western Sydney for work."
"3||'I'm born to do this': Condemned by caste, India's sewer cleaners risk death dailyJust before 7am one morning in Mumbai, three men clearing a sewer pipe were overcome by deadly fumes and collapsed. Their deaths sparked a cat-and-mouse pursuit across India. Records show the bodies of the trio were rushed to an embalmer, where a certificate was issued declaring them safe for flying. Permissions were sought in their home state of Orissa. Within hours, a plane had taken off from Mumbai, bearing their remains, bound for the east Indian state. In a small office in central Delhi, a group of activists had been quietly tracking the bodies. One of their agents had watched the coffins being loaded onto the plane. An urgent message was sent to a member of their network in Orissa: get to the airport. Find those men. Chasing the remains of sewer cleaners across the country, and gathering post-mortem evidence to force their employers to pay compensation, has become regular work for the volunteers of the Safai Karmachari Andolan, or Sanitation Workers Movement. \u2018Worse than slavery\u2019 For the past three years, the organisation has been recording every sewer death they can, stretching back three decades, to build a database many Indian lawmakers would prefer not exist. They are revealing the toll of what Indians call \u201cmanual scavenging\u201d, one of deadliest occupations in the world, and starkest examples of the continuing blight of caste on millions of lives. Hundreds of thousands of Indians are still thought to make their living as scavengers, emptying dry toilets by hand, or cleaning septic tanks and sewers without protection. They belong overwhelmingly to a single community: the Valmiki caste, regarded as the very bottom of the intricate system that still governs who most Indians marry, what they eat \u2013 and who unclogs their sewers. This past year, more than 300 people are estimated to have died doing the work, including seven in the first seven days of 2018. \u201cThis is the most hazardous job,\u201d says Bezwada Wilson, the leader of Safai Karmachari Andolan, whose own parents were manual scavengers. \u201cIt is the most undignified job, an inhuman, barbaric practice. It is worse than slavery.\u201d \u2018I am born to do this\u2019 The sun has barely risen in Fatehpur Sikri, a small city south of Delhi, when the veiled women gather carrying battered baskets and brooms. Manual scavenging in 2018 takes two forms, split along gender lines. Men clean sewers; women go house-to-house clearing waste from deep holes used as toilets. Khushba approaches the first of the 40-odd house she services with practised ease. \u201cGet away, this is not clean,\u201d she cautions, mouth and nose covered tightly by her scarf, as she douses the hole with fly ash and scoops its contents into her basket. She first learned she would become a scavenger six months after her marriage at age 17. \u201cI felt sad in the beginning,\u201d she said. \u201cBut there was poverty and we had to fill the stomachs of our family. So there was no other option for me \u2013 I covered my nose and started doing it.\u201d Caste is governed by an obsession with purity. Traditionally, food or water touched by Dalits is considered to be spoiled; in extreme cases, even their shadows were regarded as polluting. This apartheid persists, even in Indian cities, severely limiting the work available to women such as Ladja, another manual scavenger. \u201cSuppose I have money and open a shop,\u201d she says, her face covered by a sheer veil. \u201cNon-Valmiki people won\u2019t buy from me. Suppose I want to be a cook. Nobody will let me enter their kitchen.\u201d Five hours\u2019 drive from Fatehpur Sikri are the gleaming tower blocks of Gurgaon, a satellite city south of Delhi, home to multinationals, breweries and other badges of modern India. Deepak Valmiki moved to the city 10 years ago looking for work. He knew that wherever he applied, there would be only one job available. \u201cI am a cleaner,\u201d he says, leaning on his motorcycle. \u201cI am born to do this.\u201d As India has modernised, so too has caste discrimination. Deepak owns a smartphone and wears aviator sunglasses. But at least twice a month, he is forced to enter the septic tank at the automotive factory where he works to clean it without protection. In September, three of his colleagues died at the bottom of a company tank. \u201cIt was a total chemical smell,\u201d says Binesh, the only survivor. He entered the tank first and collapsed in seconds. The other three piled in after him, managing to secure a rope around his waist before they too succumbed. He was the only one pulled out alive. Incidents such as these spark calls for compensation, but few Valmikis seriously question why they do this work, says Wilson. Part of what makes caste so stubborn is its divine sanction in the Hindu tradition. \u201cIt has been given legitimacy by the religion,\u201d he says. Deepak thinks hard when asked if he should find another job. \u201cI\u2019m not very sure I could,\u201d he finally says. \u201cThe people who are supposed to do a job should do that job only. I take it as my responsibility. I clean my country.\u201d Indian governments have passed several pieces of legislation outlawing manual scavenging, the first in 1955. But the gap between Indian law and what prevails on the ground is often vast. Nobody has ever been convicted for using scavenger labour. India\u2019s rail ministry is thought to be the country\u2019s largest employer of manual scavengers, employing thousands of Valmikis to clear excrement and rubbish flushed from trains. Most are informally hired at arm\u2019s length by contractors. \u201cRecruiters, contractors, they know whom to ask,\u201d says Ashif Shaikh, a human rights activist. \u201cThey will go to where the Valmikis stay and ask them to clean the tracks.\u201d Through their investigations, the team at the Safai Karmachari Andolan have documented more than 1,500 scavenger deaths since 1993. \u201cAnd that\u2019s a low estimate,\u201d Wilson adds. \u201cWe think each year it is not less than 500.\u201d A flagship promise by the Narendra Modi government to build toilets for every Indian offers hope for liberating some scavengers. Robotic technology is also being trialled in Kerala state to automate the work. But activists say a lasting solution will come in the form of women such as Ladkunwar. Four years ago, she too wielded a basket and broom to clean latrines in Rasulpur, her village near Agra. Until one morning, when she felt overcome by the truth of her work. \u201cI was carrying someone else\u2019s faeces on my head,\u201d she says. \u201cI sat down with many sisters and started encouraging them that we had to leave this job.\u201d One-by-one, Valmiki women in Rasulpur began to leave the profession. It took four years to eradicate it completely. Many still struggle to make an alternative living. \u201cThere are lots of jobs we are not allowed to do. There is still a taint,\u201d Ladkunwar says. But there is also something new in the eyes of the other villagers. \u201cRespect,\u201d she says. \u201cNow if someone forces me to clean their toilet, I will lift up my slipper and hit them.\u201d Additional reporting by Shaikh Azizur Rahman"
"10||'Maybe we'll give that a shot': Donald Trump praises Xi Jinping's power grabDonald Trump has celebrated Xi Jinping\u2019s bid to shepherd China back into an era of one-man dictatorship, suggesting the United States might one day \u201cgive that a shot\u201d. China\u2019s authoritarian leader took power in 2012 and had been expected to rule until 2023. However, last week it emerged that Xi would attempt to use an annual meeting of China\u2019s parliament, which kicks off on Monday morning, to abolish presidential term limits by changing the Chinese constitution. Liberals have condemned the power grab, which will almost certainly be approved by members of the National People\u2019s Congress who have flocked to Beijing for the two-week summit. Experts say the amendment paves the way for Xi to be China\u2019s ruler-for-life. \u201cThis is a critical moment in China\u2019s history,\u201d Cheng Li, a prominent expert in elite Chinese politics who has criticised the move, told AP. However, Trump offered a more positive assessment during a fundraising event at his Mar-a-Lago estate, where he hosted Xi last April. \u201cHe\u2019s now president for life. President for life. And he\u2019s great,\u201d the US president reportedly told Republican donors. \u201cAnd look, he was able to do that. I think it\u2019s great. Maybe we\u2019ll give that a shot some day,\u201d Trump added, according to CNN which obtained a recording of what it described as an upbeat, joke-filled speech. Even before Trump\u2019s controversial remarks Chinese activists and dissidents had voiced disappointment over the lack of criticism from western governments and leaders. \u201cThis kind of reaction is very short-sighted,\u201d said Zhou Fengsuo, a democracy activist who has lived in exile since fleeing the 1989 Tiananmen crackdown. \u201cThis kind of permanent leadership never ends well \u2026 history tells us it will not just be a Chinese issue, it will have a deep and profound influence on the world ... [China] will see a lot of uncertainty and likely conflict because of this.\u201d The topic of Xi\u2019s power grab is so politically sensitive within China that nearly all of the academics approached by the Guardian for comment in the lead-up to Monday\u2019s congress declined to talk. Xing Hua, the only Chinese scholar who agreed to be interviewed, claimed foreign journalists were \u201cover-interpreting\u201d and \u201cover-emphasising\u201d the move. \u201cI hope western media can view this proposal in a comprehensive and objective manner,\u201d said Xing, from the China Institute of International Studies, a state-run think tank. However, western experts say they are convinced Xi\u2019s plan is to rule for many years to come. \u201cHe\u2019s now 64. So he has got at least 20 years [left in him] \u2026 that would take him almost to the centenary of the establishment of the People\u2019s Republic [in 2049],\u201d said Roderick MacFarquhar, a Harvard University China expert. MacFarquhar said China\u2019s \u201csupreme ruler\u201d was seeking to change China\u2019s constitution rather than simply ignoring it, so as to avoid looking like \u201csome sort of Banana Republic\u201d. But the effect was the same: \u201cHe\u2019s signalling: \u2018I\u2019m going to stay on forever.\u2019\u201d \u201cDictators are always arrogant,\u201d said Qiao Mu, a journalism professor who moved into exile in response to Xi\u2019s reign. \u201cIt\u2019s a disaster for political civilization.\u201d"
"9||'Turn back the float!': Cher, the Mardi Gras and when the personal gets politicalThe humid evening draws in and Oxford Street is full of people. I walk up towards the parade route from Sydney\u2019s Central station and the majority of people walking alongside me are decked out in rainbows, glitter and clothing far more bawdy and revealing than the usual Saturday night attire. At Taylor Square, halfway along the parade route, the crowds are already swelling. Music starts pumping from a huge sound system outside the Courthouse Hotel. A volunteer waving some green pom-poms, tries, with limited success, to corral the crowd into performing a Mexican wave. With the snarl of engines and the sharp scent of fuel, 240 women burn down the street on motorbikes, decked out in leather and denim, rainbow flags flying behind them. These are the Dykes on Bikes \u2013 one of the country\u2019s longest-running LGBT+ community groups and motorcycle clubs for women \u2013 and they have been opening the parade for years now. The Boys on Bikes follow, and then the First Nations, led by a drag queen in a sequinned Aboriginal flag ballgown, who make an acknowledgement of country. This may be my first time attending the Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras, but images from the past 40 years of the parade are so universally recognisable, and its mythology so embedded in this part of Sydney, that in aesthetics, at least, it feels entirely familiar. What I don\u2019t expect is how infectious the euphoria is of those marching. I\u2019ve never felt remotely comfortable conforming to the expectations of my gender and I\u2019ve also never found it particularly freeing, as many I know have, to hang a label on my sexuality. But even just being yourself is a difficult enough space to inhabit and the social pressure to live by certain codes can be incredibly stifling even for the most stalwart nonconformists. Mardi Gras, though, feels like a space big enough to march through, big enough for everyone to fly whichever flag suits them best. The 78ers follow the First Nations and the crowd is cheering and grinning, cries of \u201cThank you!\u201d chorusing up from the stands. It\u2019s hard to imagine what the landscape for LGBT+ rights in Australia would look like without the actions of those activists. It\u2019s a sobering thought that I keep coming back to as floats pass throughout the night relating to HIV awareness and safe sex, disability support, sexual freedom within religious organisations \u2013 sometimes tiny groups pushing against huge monoliths. The ANZ float comes by, the first of the corporate sponsor floats. Complaints about the increasing commercialisation of the parade are ongoing and it is slightly jarring to see brand names such as Netflix, Vodafone and Medibank Private plastered with rainbows and glitter, trying to blend in to the crowd. They are markedly more glitzy than the community floats, for a start; no DIY aesthetic here. But such high-profile corporate involvement demonstrates perhaps more clearly than anything that community acceptance of alternative sexualities is simply not the frontier it once was. If anything, the corporate embrace of Mardi Gras \u2013 and the widespread corporate support of marriage equality during the widely criticised postal survey late last year \u2013 is evidence that queer is a mainstream market. It might be good morality to support the LGBT+ community but these days it\u2019s also good business. At one point, the prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, turns up to walk Taylor Square with his wife, Lucy, swilling a drink. \u201c[Mardi Gras is] 40 years old and, 40 years ago, Lucy and I had our first date,\u201d he tells the waiting media, before moving on to talking about marriage equality. \u201cIt was a vote for love, for equality, for respect,\u201d he says, saying that equality and respect was what Mardi Gras was always about. \u201cThere has been so much change in the 40 years and there was the final issue of marriage equality, and we got it done.\u201d But marriage equality is far from the \u201cfinal issue\u201d for this crowd. Gabrielle, a 78er, marching in only her second Mardi Gras, 40 years after her first, does not believe the fight is over, no matter how much things have changed. \u201cAll the issues keep repeating themselves,\u201d she tells me as she marches. \u201cEvery time we move forward, like with gay marriage, the religious people say \u2018we have a right to discriminate against you because of our religious beliefs\u2019. They find loopholes.\u201d Scott, marching with the leather fetish community float, says Mardi Gras is \u201cmore than just a celebration of gay, it\u2019s a celebration of humanity. There\u2019s so much happiness and love, you have no idea what it\u2019s like to walk up there and see people reach out and embrace what we do.\u201d When asked what the next campaign should be, he says: \u201cIt\u2019s just being accepted as equals in the workforce and the community, and pushing forward now for women\u2019s rights, trans rights and equality across those other matters.\u201d Turnbull is only the first of many politicians who make their way around Taylor Square this evening. Bill Shorten and Tanya Plibersek work the barrier; Richard Di Natale marches with the marriage equality float and then heads back up the road to march again with the Greens. The Sydney lord mayor, Clover Moore, gets a rapturous reception as her float arrives. But when the Liberal party float makes its way down the road, protesters jump in front of it wearing mock Australian Border Force uniforms, blowing whistles and carrying a banner reading \u201cTurn back the float!\u201d It\u2019s not the only time the issue of refugee rights makes an appearance. The Refugee Action Coalition has a huge contingent of marchers under the slogan \u201cNo pride in detention\u201d, protesting the bipartisan support for offshore detention of refugees, particularly those whose sexual identity makes them the target of persecution in both their country of origin and their island prison. The biggest kerfuffle, though, happens halfway through the parade, and it\u2019s nothing to do with politics. A troupe of dancers dressed as sailors burst into Taylor Square as the Qantas float arrives and pop star Cher appears in an orange wig to the strains of her hit song Believe and is immediately surrounded by a crush of people. Somehow, she makes her way to the media pit. \u201cI love that everybody is having such a good time and there\u2019s no feeling of any kind of anger, there\u2019s no negativity and that\u2019s what I like most,\u201d she says, before disappearing back into the VIP section, leaving thousands of breathless fans in her wake. There are 200 floats in the parade, which is scheduled to run for four hours. While the energy on the route is still high, by about the three-hour mark I find myself flagging \u2013 and there\u2019s only so many times one can hear Vogue or I Wanna Dance With Somebody and maintain enthusiasm. I leave shortly before the end, hoping to avoid the worst of the crowds heading down to the Moore Park Entertainment Precinct for the official after-party. Post-parade festivities are scattered all through the city these days but the Party is by far the biggest: it\u2019s the event the stars play \u2013 Kylie Minogue, Cyndi Lauper, George Michael and the Village People to name a few \u2013 and about 12,000 people attended this year. At midnight in the Royal Hall of Industries is the \u201ccommunity show\u201d. It is designed and directed by the Mardi Gras creative director, Greg Clarke, and features 40 drag queens from the festival\u2019s history. It\u2019s a bit of camp fun but people are in the RHI because they know that this is where Cher is going to perform. She finally takes the stage at 1.30am, in a blond wig this time, and the crowd \u2013 from my vantage point disproportionately comprised of shirtless men \u2013 goes bananas. She opens with All or Nothing, backed up by a troupe of dancers. I can\u2019t decide if she is lip-syncing or not but the occasional blip of Auto-Tune suggests it is not entirely live. But perhaps it doesn\u2019t matter: there aren\u2019t many 71-year-old women who would get up on stage and dance about wearing little more than a few strings of diamant\u00e9s \u2013 except possibly at Mardi Gras. Cher launches into Strong Enough and I notice the Auslan interpreters to the side of the stage, clearly having a blast. Believe comes soon after and the crowd goes bonkers, and I\u2019m surprised at how many of the words I know to a song I remember loathing as a teenager. It\u2019s followed by a bizarre dubstep dance break that is quickly revealed to be cover for a costume change into a black spangly leotard and giant black curly wig. It seems quite a lot of effort to go to for one song, Turn Back Time, before the singer disappears from the stage. She\u2019s occupied it for less than 30 minutes \u2013 for such a big name and such a high-profile gig, it feels rather underwhelming. But that\u2019s the nature of a party like this and the euphoria it brings: it is fleeting. As the dawn creeps in, and you drag your sore feet home, you remember that real work still needs to be done. But sometimes, for a short while, showering everything in glitter can be liberating."
"3||Eight signs that Xi Jinping was planning to cement his grip on ChinaChina\u2019s abolition of term limits for the president, which will pave the way for Xi Jinping to rule for life, is the culmination of a campaign of tightening control waged by Xi since he came to power in 2012. Over the past five years he has worked doggedly to build a cult of personality, endearing himself to the populace as a father figure while requiring unwavering loyalty from officials and cracking down harshly on dissent. This is how Xi cemented his grip on China. Purges Soon after coming to power in 2012, Xi began a sweeping anti-graft campaign that has seen about 1.3 million officials punished in some form. But Xi\u2019s work to weaken rival factions at the pinnacle of Chinese politics has left him the last man standing. Zhou Yongkang, the former security czar, became the highest ranking official since the founding of the People\u2019s Republic to be jailed on corruption charges. \u201cXi has a very particular vision of where China is going: for China to enter the centre stage of world affairs and reshape the global order,\u201d said Victor Shih, a politics professor at the University of California, San Diego. \u201cHe feels he needs control every little detail to achieve those goals, and will silence officials he thinks stand in his way.\u201d Xi has also targeted high-ranking military officials, with some committing suicide rather than suffer the consequences of a public shaming, and is pushing to establish an anti-corruption watchdog with more extensive powers, ensuring the purges will continue. Memorabilia For a visual comparison to Mao, look no further than the plethora of shops selling Xi-themed memorabilia in cities across China. Often times Xi and Mao airbrushed portraits hang side by side. For something a little more inspiring, Chinese calligraphy with quotes by Xi and a faux-ink portrait of the man are also widely available. But if wall space is limited, China\u2019s souvenir merchants offer commemorative plates decorated with Xi\u2019s portrait or a photo of the first couple waving. And for those that want to carry Xi with them everywhere, heart shaped necklaces with his likeness hang by the dozen from countertop racks. They are identical to the ones feature Mao, the only difference is the portrait. \u201cThe way he has associated himself with Mao, as a kind of revolutionary hero, is an effort to build legitimacy in a system where for a long time the Communist party\u2019s credibility was based on the revolution,\u201d said Merriden Varrall, director of the East Asia program at the Lowy Institute. \u201cSince he wasn\u2019t alive then, he needs to associate himself with the real thing.\u201d Crushing dissent Xi began taking a hard line against any form of dissent shortly after coming to power. He launched a nationwide crackdown on civil rights lawyers and activists that saw nearly 250 people detained by police. Internet and press censorship has also increased under Xi, meaning there are few alternative voices to even offer moderate differences to the party line. He has openly said the media should be a tool of the Communist party and sending an offending tweet is now enough to land someone in jail. \u201cThere are a variety of alternative viewpoints, whether it\u2019s religion, civil society or or the media, and Xi doesn\u2019t want anyone to question the direction he is taking China,\u201d said Ely Ratner, a senior fellow for China studies at the Council of Foreign Relations. Writing himself into the constitution, and the daily news At a Communist party meeting last year, Xi succeeded in placing himself on the same level as the two most important modern leaders, Mao and Deng Xiaoping. Xi had his name written into the party\u2019s constitution, not just a nod to his ideology as his predecessors had done. Now he is poised to have his name inscribed in the country\u2019s constitution as well. But ordinary Chinese people are already accustomed to seeing Xi\u2019s name everywhere. While China\u2019s state-controlled media has always focused heavily on the achievements of national leaders, Xi was second only to Mao in frequency and intensity of state media coverage, according to a 2014 study. \u201cThe airwaves are saturated with his thoughts, his image and his work, they go out of their way to cover him,\u201d said Shih. \u201cIt shows he\u2019s firmly in control, but also that he is personally responsible for China\u2019s direction, instead of the state or the party.\u201d Man of many titles Xi has amassed a laundry list of titles, leading many to refer to him as the \u201cchairman of everything\u201d. His three most important for governing are president, general secretary of the Communist party and chairman of the Central Military Commission. But he has also created a host of specialised working groups \u2013 on topics such as Taiwan and cyberspace \u2013 and consistently placed himself at the head of them. \u201cNo one has the capacity to handle the complexities of all these issues at once, and it\u2019s a good question why he has an inability to delegate,\u201d said Ratner. \u201cThere\u2019s a sense of bureaucratic paralysis, officials don\u2019t want to take certain actions or report bad news, and that will lead to bad decision-making down the line.\u201d He is also known as the \u201ccore leader\u201d, a distinction trumpeted on countless red propaganda banners hanging in every city in China. While it does not confer any specific powers, it sends a strong message Xi is firmly in control. Little beige book Mao had his little red book, a pocket-sized collection of quotations that loyal followers carried everywhere. Xi has his own version, although it is far less portable. The off-white tome has a colour portrait of Xi with red lettering displaying the bland title: The Governance of China. It has so far run over two volumes and is a collection of speeches and his thoughts outlining his plans for the political future of the country. \u201cXi seems to fundamentally believe China needs to be saved, believes the Communist party is the only entity that can do that and he believes he\u2019s the only person that can lead it,\u201d said Varrall. Loyalty or (career) death Supporters of China\u2019s authoritarian government have often praised what they describe as collective leadership: the leader is unelected, but he is heavily influenced by the six other powerful men who sit on the politburo standing committee. Xi has centralised power in his own hands to a greater extent than even Deng Xiaoping, and for junior officials to critique Xi\u2019s policies would amount to career suicide. \u201cIf he makes a policy mistake, no one is going to be there to correct him,\u201d said Shih. \u201cWhat used to be healthy policy debates will turn into sycophancy.\u201d Shih pointed to the creation of a new city called Xiong\u2019an, meant to be a satellite capital to Beijing where non-essential departments are based, as a \u201cmassive waste\u201d helmed by Xi. In theory absolute power comes with absolute responsibility, but so far Xi has been able to deflect the blame for crises, like a stock market meltdown in 2015. Tree worshipping The sycophancy has reached such heights that last year, senior provincial officials were bussed in to gaze upon a tree planted by Xi and consider the mission of the Communist party. The excursion was followed by a reading of a poem about a dogged propaganda official from the 1960s, composed by Xi himself. \u201cIt\u2019s incredibly excessive and very deliberate,\u201d said Ratner. \u201cThe effort to which Chinese propagandists are going to elevate him to a great man and a great leader is at times excessive to the point of parody.\u201d Xi has also made his own trips to prominent sites in Communist party history, highlighting his nostalgia for some aspects of the Mao era. He started a trend that saw many officials recite the party oath at historical sites."
"1||Get Out wins big at Film Independent Spirit awards on eve of OscarsThe satirical horror film Get Out was named best feature at this year\u2019s Film Independent Spirit Awards on the eve of this year\u2019s Oscars. The film, which was made for $4.5m, beat out Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri and Call Me By Your Name for the top prize. First-time film-maker Jordan Peele was also named best director. \u201cThis project didn\u2019t start as a statement, it began as me wanting to make a film in my favorite genre,\u201d Peele said. He finished by addressing the room: \u201cOur truths are the most powerful weapons we have against the lies in this world so keep doing what you\u2019re doing.\u201d Frances McDormand was named best female lead for playing a grieving mother in Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. \u201cThis award convention goes on for-fucking-ever,\u201d she said. \u201cThank you for having me here. I am independent and I am spirited.\u201d Call Me by Your Name star Timoth\u00e9e Chalamet won the award for best male lead for his performance as a teenager discovering his sexuality during a summer in Italy. \u201cTwo years ago I could get away with doing a movie where I had sex with a peach because no one knew who I was but now I have to be a bit more careful,\u201d the 22-year-old joked. Allison Janney continued her streak of best supporting actress wins for her performance in I, Tonya while Bafta and Golden Globe winner Sam Rockwell picked up best supporting male for playing a racist cop in Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. \u201cI\u2019ve been in like 932 independent films,\u201d he said. \u201cI\u2019m very familiar with the phrase micro-budget.\u201d Greta Gerwig took home the award for best screenplay for her semi-autobiographical comedy Lady Bird. \u201cI\u2019ve always wanted to be a writer and I\u2019m truly so grateful and shocked,\u201d she said. Dark Instagram satire Ingrid Goes West won best first feature, Faces Places was named best documentary and Chilean drama A Fantastic Woman picked up best international film. The Robert Altman award, handed out to the year\u2019s best director, casting director and ensemble cast, went to second world war-era drama Mudbound. Director Dee Rees paid tribute to her crew before critiquing the practice of handing out awards. \u201cNothing diminishes or enhances the value of the work except the work itself and that\u2019s what we put on screen,\u201d she said. The year also saw a handful of well-aimed shots at Donald Trump, falling in line with other awards ceremonies under his presidency. While presenting best international film, Salma Hayek said: \u201cThis award had never gone to a shithole nation because there are no shithole nations.\u201d Ava DuVernay introduced a new category entitled the Bonnie award aimed at rewarding the work of a female film-maker whose career shows promise at an early stage. The inaugural winner was Chlo\u00e9 Zhao, whose acclaimed drama The Rider was also nominated for four awards. Last year\u2019s hosts Nick Kroll and John Mulaney returned and started with a review of a year filled with accusations of sexual abuse in Hollywood. \u201cLast year everyone famous died,\u201d Mulaney said. \u201cThis year everyone famous wishes they were dead.\u201d The pair regaled the audience with stories about Harvey Weinstein and Brett Ratner before debating whether it was possible to separate the art from the artist. Mulaney joked that it will now be hard to enjoy Woody Allen\u2019s \u201clast 20 unwatchable movies\u201d. Last year saw Moonlight win six awards, including best feature. The ceremony arrives on the eve of this year\u2019s Oscars, where Get Out is up for four awards, including best picture. Best feature Get Out Best male lead Timoth\u00e9e Chalamet, Call Me by Your Name Best female lead Frances McDormand, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri Best supporting male Sam Rockwell, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri Best supporting female Allison Janney, I, Tonya Best director Jordan Peele, Get Out Best screenplay Greta Gerwig, Lady Bird Best documentary Faces Places Best international film A Fantastic Woman Best editing Tatiana S Riegel, I, Tonya Best first feature Ingrid Goes West Best first screenplay Emily V Gordon and Kumail Nunjiani, The Big Sick Robert Altman award Mudbound John Cassavetes award Life and Nothing More The Bonnie award Chlo\u00e9 Zhao Someone to watch award Justin Chon, Gook Truer than fiction award Jonathan Olshefski, Quest Piaget producers award Summer Shelton"
"13||Lethal Indifference: real-life story exposes failures in protecting vulnerable womenFor 90 minutes each night for the past few weeks, Emily Barclay has been standing alone on a stage at Sydney Theatre Company, heavily pregnant, telling the true story of a woman who was held captive, starved, beaten, raped, stalked and eventually murdered by her husband in Melbourne. The woman, named Reema Dhami in the play, was just 23 when she moved alone to Australia from India to marry her lover. The horrifying story that unfolded from there illustrates how systems and institutions are failing to protect women in Australia at every level \u2013 from the police, to the justice system, to the community at large. As award-winning playwright Anna Barnes writes in the script for Lethal Indifference, \u201cit takes a whole village to truly harass a woman\u201d. It also takes a village to kill her. The play, directed by Jessica Arthur, opened on 17 February. One woman from the audience was so moved that her foundation committed three years\u2019 worth of funding to a women\u2019s shelter the next day. \u201cThat was the best news I\u2019ve ever heard,\u201d Barnes says. \u201cWhen you\u2019re working in theatre or writing, you can change people\u2019s minds, but when something [tangible] like that happens, you\u2019re like, \u2018Oh my god!\u2019\u201d Barnes spent four years working as a publicist at a family violence legal service. The character Barclay plays is based on her, and the story she tells is one Barnes encountered in her time at the service. She spent years trying to get journalists interested in it \u2013 but although one woman is killed by their partner or ex-partner every week in Australia, only a few of the stories make it to the news. Australian media tend to favour stories about white victims, and this woman, who was killed about five years ago, was brown. She had no family in Australia to give the moving pieces-to-camera that make for compelling TV. That didn\u2019t help either. \u201cI think everyone working in the sector has one story that affects them [more than the others],\u201d Barnes says. In this case, Barnes couldn\u2019t shake the fact that \u201cshe was the perfect victim\u201d. She climbed out of the window to escape her captor. She told a neighbour, went to the police, got legal advice, got a temporary intervention order. She managed all this in a new country. She was clever, resourceful, unfathomably strong. And he still found a way to murder her. \u201cShe did everything \u2018right\u2019,\u201d Barnes says, \u201cand I say that in quotation marks because the idea that a victim has to do everything right is so ridiculous. But she was just so smart and innovative, she was able to get away, she never put a foot wrong. \u201cYou have this idea that, well, \u2018I\u2019ll be safe.\u2019 Or, \u2018I\u2019d do it differently\u2019. But it doesn\u2019t matter. It really doesn\u2019t matter. Because the system is set against you ... It\u2019s not about smarts or strength.\u201d Lethal Indifference spotlights not just this specific, brutal story but the structural issues at the heart of it \u2013 the more complicated questions that won\u2019t make it to a bulletin. Why did the police require her statements be made in person when, like many women, she was too scared to leave the house? Why hasn\u2019t the government found a way to give women\u2019s shelters and services the funding they need? Why does the community expect women to leave, when many of them have nowhere to go, and when leaving can present the biggest risk? And why do we act surprised every time another woman is killed, when we\u2019ve done so little to fix the underlying causes that are staring us right in the face? There were many ways for this story to be told on a stage, but a one-woman-play from the perspective of Barnes herself \u2013 who tells Dhami\u2019s story, but also her own \u2013 felt like the least problematic. \u201cI think it\u2019s really important to be wary, as a white woman, to be telling anyone else\u2019s story \u2013 especially a woman of colour,\u201d she says. \u201cI wanted it to be clear I wasn\u2019t telling her story from her [point of view] ... I needed to have skin in the game, and investigate my own experience of these systems and my own complicity in them.\u201d She didn\u2019t use the woman\u2019s real name because she was unable to contact her family \u2013 but it\u2019s not just about one woman, anyway. \u201cThis story is depressingly not special,\u201d she writes. The play might sound like a traumatic way to spend an evening, and in many ways it is, but in the hands of Barclay \u2013 the New Zealand actor who most recently starred in Glitch and Please Like Me \u2013 Dhami\u2019s story is interrupted with lighter moments, personal reflections, even actual laughter. Barclay is compelling, funny and likeable, pacing and lounging in her bedroom where the play is set as she delivers the monologue. She corrects herself continually, desperately trying to pin the story\u2019s details down as if that will help her let it go. It\u2019s the kind of self-editing familiar to any woman who has been told to get their story straight \u2013 and when the stakes are this high, one mistake or poorly-worded phrase can be literally lethal. \u201cThe more you explore it, the more you realise it\u2019s just such a carefully crafted piece,\u201d Barclay says, of Barnes\u2019 script. \u201cEverything informs everything else - it\u2019s so accumulative.\u201d When she was cast, Barclay had no idea she would be pregnant when the play opened; in fact, STC had to push it forward to make sure she could still perform. But Barnes decided not to change anything in the script. \u201cI think there\u2019s something powerful about seeing a pregnant woman on stage when she\u2019s not talking about pregnancy,\u201d Barnes says. It also adds another layer to the play: more than half of women who experience partner violence report experiencing it during pregnancy; and a quarter experience domestic violence for the first time while pregnant. Barclay begins to represent not just the present, but the future too, and when her character takes off her dress to reveal a real swell, the urgency of the issue lands like a punch. \u201cThere are often some quite vocal responses from audiences,\u201d Barclay laughs. She has found the play galvanising. \u201cIt hammered home to me really what an epidemic this is, and how little we\u2019re actually doing to try and investigate what\u2019s going on, and why this keeps happening. \u201cFor me, it\u2019s part of a much wider issue, one that we\u2019re all talking about at the moment \u2013 about male power and male privilege and male violence \u2013 but the specifics of family and domestic violence too, and the fact that more than one woman a week is murdered in this country [by a current or former partner]. It\u2019s such a shocking statistic, isn\u2019t it? ... How are we not all talking about this every second of the day?\u201d Barnes lives in Victoria where the Royal Commission into Family Violence brought some tangible policy changes. She hopes the play offers audiences that rare thing: a problem that can actually be solved. \u201cThis is our friends, our work colleagues, our systems, our neighbours. We play a role in this, and how we engage with it is really important. We can change how things are funded. If we think something is a priority, then it gets funded,\u201d she says. \u201cWe need funding for all family violence services \u2013 women\u2019s legal services, shelters, but also funding for behavioural change programs, funding for early intervention. Community attitudes need to change. Police attitudes are changing, and their policies need to change ... These kinds of things can make a huge difference.\u201d Lethal Indifference runs at Sydney Theatre Company until 10 March Victims of family violence can call the 24-hour services 1800 RESPECT on 1800 737 732 or Family Violence Response on 1800 015 188."
"9||Labor signals plan to dump 'punitive' work for the dole programEd Husic has said that work for the dole is \u201cpunishing people for not being in work\u201d rather than helping them find a job in a sign Labor is preparing to dump the program if elected. Labor\u2019s employment services spokesman has ramped up his rhetoric against work for the dole after evidence in Senate estimates that 73% of participants did not have a job three months after completing the work-readiness program. Work for the dole employs job seekers for up to 25 hours a week for six months a year as a form of mutual obligation to continue receiving the dole. The program expanded under the Coalition from 47,000 places in 2014 to 111,000 in 2016. On Sunday Husic told ABC\u2019s Insiders the $600m program had \u201cserious question marks over its performance and, in particular, whether or not it\u2019s safe\u201d. \u201cWe need to ensure that we get young Australians working, not putting them through a program that clearly has either got an issue with its safety or an issue ultimately as to whether or not it\u2019s putting people into work, skilling them up, getting them ready for jobs.\u201d Husic and the Australian Unemployed Workers Union have been campaigning for the release of a report into the death of work for the dole participant Joshua Park-Fing in Toowoomba in April 2016. Husic cited that case and incidents of young people being exposed to asbestos, claiming that departmental audits had found work for the dole work sites were not safe. The government maintains that the rates of injury incidents on the program are lower than across the economy as a whole. Husic said that would be cold comfort to the families of children exposed to asbestos and argued young people feel they can\u2019t make safety complaints for fear of losing their welfare payments. Husic said that Labor is \u201cabsolutely committed to mutual obligation\u201d. \u201cWe want to ensure that young people are not sitting on their hands. They don\u2019t want to be sitting on their hands, they want to be put to work.\u201d Mutual obligations include training, developing a job plan, applying for jobs and attending meetings with employment service providers. Signalling an intention to replace work for the dole, Husic said that a \u201cfuture program\u201d would retain mutual obligation so that job seekers are skilling themselves up and getting ready for work. Husic said that 70% of work for the dole participants \u201cdon\u2019t get themselves into jobs just months after being in it\u201d. He said it \u201chas been a useful program\u201d in the past because Labor ran it \u201cwith a focus on skilling people up and in particular for those job seekers that haven\u2019t had any work experience whatsoever\u201d. \u201cThe way it is being managed at the moment, the way it has been chopped and changed and the way it is not preparing people with skills that employers need demonstrate that the program being managed by the Coalition is becoming a dud.\u201d On Wednesday employment department officials told Senate estimates that between July 2016 and June 2017, 27.1% of work for the dole participants were employed three months after their participation in the program. The Greens\u2019 family and community services spokeswoman, Rachel Siewert, said that more than 70% of people \u201clanguish below the poverty line after working below the minimum wage just to receive income support\u201d. \u201cHere we have a clear cut example of work for the dole not working for participants, yet the government persists with the program,\u201d she said. Siewert said the program forced people to do \u201cbasic tasks\u201d that \u201cdon\u2019t necessarily build skills\u201d. She suggested it should be scrapped in favour of individualised support and mentoring for young people to help them find jobs."
"1||Will this year's Oscars truly be a watershed moment for diversity?It\u2019s been touted as one of the most open Academy Awards in recent memory, but whoever wins on Sunday we already know who the loser is. The award for worst performing sector of society goes to \u2026 and no surprises here: white masculinity. This particular demographic has already been identified as the problem with the movie industry in general and the academy in particular, in the wake of both #OscarsSoWhite (which campaigned for more representation of people of colour in film) and the current #MeToo/Time\u2019s Up movement (against sexual harassment and gender inequality in the industry). Looking at this year\u2019s best picture nominees, that sentiment appears to have carried through into the movies themselves. Frontrunner The Shape of Water, for example, is set in cold war America but mirrors the current political zeitgeist uncannily. Its central characters are all marginalised members of society: Sally Hawkins plays a mute cleaner, her best friends are an African-American woman and a gay artist, and she forms a romantic bond with a humanoid amphibian creature (he\u2019s from the Amazon, so technically he\u2019s a Latino). But it\u2019s clear who the real monster of the piece is: Michael Shannon\u2019s sour, sadistic, ramrod-straight FBI agent. He essentially represents the postwar American patriarchy keeping these women and minorities down. The white, male establishment is the enemy across the board this year. In Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, Frances McDormand (the favourite for best actress) wages a one-woman war against her local police department, personified by Woody Harrelson and his racist deputy, Sam Rockwell. In Get Out, Daniel Kaluuya is imperilled by a seemingly respectable white community (of both sexes) that turns out to prey on African Americans with impunity. Call Me By Your Name is a story of white men rejecting heterosexual norms, and Lady Bird is a female-centric teen story in which the only significant males are the heroine\u2019s two boyfriends (both douchebags, to some extent) and her father, who is unemployed and battling depression. Most emblematic of all, perhaps, is Paul Thomas Anderson\u2019s Phantom Thread, in which Daniel Day-Lewis portrays a 1950s fashion designer. He is the epitome of toxic masculinity: domineering, intimidating, complacent. He bosses women about, he dresses them like dolls, he parades them like automatons, and he heartlessly discards them once he\u2019s done with them. He\u2019d make a great movie director. Even among the exceptions to the rule, the apparent white-male problem is consciously addressed. Steven Spielberg\u2019s The Post, for example, would have been a male-dominated newsroom thriller in decades past (see 1977 Oscar-winner All The President\u2019s Men). To bring it up to date, the screenplay incorporates a central, powerful female character into the story: publisher Katherine Graham, played by Meryl Streep. Darkest Hour deploys a similar strategy. The British parliament in the 1940s is the epitome of a white, male bastion, but Joe Wright\u2019s Churchill drama brings two key women into the narrative: his wife, Clemmie (played by Kristin Scott Thomas), and his nervous new secretary (Lily James), both of whom provide some human-scale emotion to offset the big politics. That leaves Christopher Nolan\u2019s Dunkirk the only best picture nominee with no female or minority roles to speak of, though it hardly comes across as a shining advertisement for undiluted white masculinity. That these movies reflect current sentiments is unsurprising, but they also mirror the academy\u2019s own problems with white masculinity. In 2012, a Los Angeles Times investigation revealed that the academy\u2019s 5,765 voting members were 94% white and 77% male. Their median age was 62, just 14% of members were under 50, and a sizeable proportion had not worked on a movie in decades. That year, the only actors of colour among the nominations were Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer (who won best supporting actress) in The Help. All nine of the nominated best pictures were directed by white men, and they took all five best director slots (The Artist was the big winner that year). By 2015, the situation had become untenable: no actors of colour were nominated for the second year running \u2013 inspiring the #OscarsSoWhite movement, boycotts and reams of damaging publicity. In response to this existential threat, former academy president Cheryl Boone Isaacs unveiled \u201can ambitious, global campaign to identify and recruit qualified new members who represent greater diversity\u201d. The academy took in 683 new members in 2016 and a further 774 last year. Of last year\u2019s intake, 39% were women, and 30% were people of colour. In addition, voting membership was limited to a 10-year term, subject to renewal three times before lifetime membership is granted. Last October, in response to the flood of sexual harassment allegations against him, the academy also voted to expel Harvey Weinstein \u2013 the most visible monster of white, male privilege. \u201cIt just shows that a very simple act of will by people who can make those decisions can make change happen very quickly,\u201d says Gaylene Gould, head of cinema and events at the British Film Institute. The BFI is initiating its own changes, she points out. It has drawn up a set of diversity and inclusion targets for its partners and funding recipients: a 50-50 gender balance, 20% from ethnic minority backgrounds, 9% LGBTQ and 7% film-makers with a disability. In addition, this month, British film, television and games industries signed up to a set of anti-bullying and harassment guidelines. As from next year, British entries to the Bafta film awards will have to comply with them to be eligible for nomination. \u201cIt\u2019s going to be interesting to keep an eye on how that might stir things up and let other voices rise to the surface,\u201d says Gould. \u201cIt does feel like interventions need to be made to crack that crust that sits over Hollywood.\u201d The academy\u2019s new influx has helped fix its image problem and, arguably, prompted a more diverse spread of nominations this year. But it could also be dividing the institution into two camps: an old guard (mostly older, white and male), and a new guard of younger, more female and diverse members, many of whom have come from technical disciplines. Their ideas of what constitutes Oscar-worthy cinema could differ. Some of the new guard see it as their mission to shake things up, and to recognise people and movies that might previously have been overlooked. In turn, some of the old guard worry the academy is recruiting too many inexperienced professionals just to beef up its diversity statistics. The best picture nominees could be seen to reflect this split. Some movies champion relatively fresh talent and up-to-date, establishment-challenging stories: Get Out, Lady Bird and Call Me By Your Name. Others are more traditional Oscar fare: serious, large-scale historical drama featuring familiar names: The Post gives Meryl Streep her 21st acting nomination. \u201cI loved Get Out but it\u2019s shocking to me it got nominated,\u201d says one veteran academy voter (a white male). In decades past, he recalls, the academy was dominated by actors, a sizeable proportion of them senior citizens. \u201cSo the rumour, at least, was that a lot of the older folks really didn\u2019t care and they turned to their kids and said, \u2018What did you think was the best film?\u2019 So we saw a lot of strangeness. But now, with the diversification, a film like Get Out gets in.\u201d A similar old guard/new guard rift could also be detected in the acting categories. Critic Caryn James noted the contrast between showier turns, such as Gary Oldman\u2019s Churchill, and Allison Janney in I, Tonya, and subtler performances such as those of Timoth\u00e9e Chalamet in Call Me By Your Name, , Daniel Kaluuya in Get Out or Laurie Metcalf in Lady Bird. \u201cWe\u2019re definitely seeing an influx of new talent,\u201d says James. \u201cThe big, old-fashioned, blustery performances usually win, but this year, there was room for a little more nuance. It\u2019s hard to guess how much of that is because the Academy membership has broadened and how much they\u2019ve been kind of embarrassed into it because of things like #OscarsSoWhite. I suspect it\u2019s a bit of both.\u201d Tastes don\u2019t necessarily skew along old/new lines. An old, white, male voter says he loved The Shape Of Water but also Lady Bird. A newly recruited, 40-something British-Asian voter says, \u201cI would love to see Gary Oldman win. What a great actor. His performance was excellent.\u201d This member was \u201cstunned and humbled\u201d to be invited to join last year, he says, and surprised: \u201cI was told members were from a selected demographic of people: old, white, middle-class folk. But in my short experience of being part of the Academy, I have met a huge diversity of people who seem to come from all walks of life. I think people need to recognise that it is changing.\u201d Even if 2018 goes down as a turning point, the battle has not been won. For one thing, last year the academy elected a new president to replace Boone Isaacs: cinematographer John Bailey \u2013 a 75-year-old white man. Bailey has expressed his support for the academy\u2019s diversity agenda, but his election was seen by some as \u201ca victory for the more conservative wing of the 54-person board, which feels that the board has become too activist in recent years\u201d. For another thing, the awards have not been handed out yet. The old, white male order has by no means been overturned. Gary Oldman is overwhelming favourite for best actor, for example, and some of those younger contenders will go home empty-handed. As Churchill said, this is only \u201cthe end of the beginning\u201d. The Academy\u2019s diversity drive of the past two years has only increased the total proportion of female members from 25% to 28%, and people of colour from 8% to 13%. In its 90-year history, the Academy has still only nominated five women and five people of colour for best director.Real Hollywood change has to happen at a structural level and there\u2019s only so much the Oscars can do. But if Lady Bird director Greta Gerwig or Get Out\u2019s Jordan Peele picks up a statuette, it will send an important signal. And in movies, presentation is everything."
"3||Why is the world at war?We live in a world of trouble. Conflicts today may be much less lethal than those that scarred the last century, but this brings little comfort. We remain deeply anxious. We can blame terrorism and the fear it inspires despite the statistically unimportant number of casualties it inflicts, or the contemporary media and the breathless cycle of \u201cbreaking news\u201d, but the truth remains that the wars that seem to inspire the fanatics or have produced so many headlines in recent years prompt deep anxiety. One reason is that these wars appear to have no end in sight. To explain these conflicts we reach for easy binary schema \u2013 Islam v the west; haves against have-nots; nations that \u201cplay by the rules\u201d of the international system against \u201crogues\u201d. We also look to grand geopolitical theories \u2013 the end of the Westphalian system, the west faced by \u201cthe rise of the rest\u201d \u2013 or even just attribute the violence to \u201cgeography\u201d. None of these explanations seems to adequately allay our concerns. This week Mohammad bin Salman, the young Saudi Arabian crown prince, will be in London. One topic he will be discussing with British policymakers is the war raging since 2015 in its neighbour Yemen, where Saudi forces lead an alliance of regional powers against Houthi rebels. The war, part of a Saudi policy of adopting a more aggressive external posture, is not going well. It is a stalemate which has left thousands of civilians dead. Last week Ashraf Ghani, Afghanistan\u2019s embattled president, announced a bold plan to draw the Taliban into a binding peace process. Commentators spoke of a last desperate gamble to bring an end to conflict that has gone on so long that there are western soldiers soon to be deployed to the country who were in nappies when it started in 2001. In Syria, where the civil war is now in its seventh year, there is no respite either. Ghouta, a rebel-held suburb of Damascus, is under daily bombardment after years of siege. Militia manoeuvre for advantage across the country. If anyone thought the fall of Raqqa, the headquarters of Islamic State (Isis), would bring an end to hostilities, they were sadly mistaken. Nor are these \u201clong wars\u201d \u2013 which could include Somalia (at war since 1991) or Libya (since 2011) or Mali (since 2012) \u2013 restricted to the Islamic world. There is South Sudan, where a vicious four-year-old civil war is intensifying, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where more protests ended in bloodshed last week. The east of the DRC was the crucible of a huge conflict that killed 5 million people between 1997 and 2003 and has remained unstable ever since. Thousands have died and millions have been displaced by conflict there in the last 18 months as anarchy overcomes swaths of the vast country. It is more than four years since Russia annexed Crimea and helped to foment a rebellion in Ukraine\u2019s industrial east. Since then about 10,000 people have died, including 3,000 civilians, and more than 1.7 million been displaced. Despite a ceasefire deal, a low-intensity conflict has become the grinding everyday backdrop for a region that no longer sees a way out of its misery. To understand the duration of these conflicts we need to understand their nature. Most analysis focuses on states. This is inevitable. Our maps show the world divided into nations. These are the building blocks of our political, legal, social and economic systems and, as has become so obvious in recent years, key to our identity. In Afghanistan, the war is both to establish a state, and about differing visions of what form it should take. In Syria, the war is to maintain, or overthrow, a state. In Yemen, the war is to control one. In the DRC, the conflict\u2019s roots lie in the weakness of the state. States have also prolonged these conflicts and, in some cases, caused them. Russia\u2019s irredentist ambitions in Ukraine, Pakistan\u2019s interference in Afghanistan. The involvement of so many regional and international actors in Syria fuelling, whether deliberately or accidentally, violence. Yet, however important, states are far from the only protagonists in these conflicts. In two decades of covering dozens of conflicts around the world, I have reported on just two that involved the troops of two nations in direct confrontation. One was the short war between India and Pakistan in 1999; the second was the war in Iraq in 2003. According to researchers at the University of California, there are none more recent. The front lines in these new conflicts often follow boundaries that divide clans or castes, not countries. They lie along frontiers between ethnic or sectarian communities, even those dividing, for example, pastoralists from herders or the landed from the landless, from those who speak one dialect or language from neighbours who speak another. These frontlines are not difficult to trace, on the map or on the ground. In fact, if we look around the world at all its many conflicts, and if we define these wars more broadly, then we see frontlines everywhere, each with its own no man\u2019s land strewn with casualties. In Mexico, Brazil, South Africa or the Philippines, there is huge violence associated with criminality and the efforts (by states) to stamp it out. There is violence perpetrated against women by those who fear progress in the struggle for a more equitable distribution of power, status and wealth. There is economic violence \u2013 how else to describe the deaths of 1,000 people in a building collapse in Bangladesh in 2013 or, in DRC again, the injuries to miners digging out critical commodities to the world\u2019s industries? Our world may not be racked by conventional conflicts between nation states of previous ages, but it is still a very violent place. The harsh reality may be that we should not be wondering why wars seem so intractable today, but why our time on this planet creates such intractable wars. Syria The conflict in Syria will soon enter its eighth year and, though the fighting that once consumed much of the country has now been restricted to a much smaller area, the chance of real peace still looks very distant. The best that anyone can hope for is a slow evolution towards a precarious pause punctuated by bouts of appalling brutality as the regime of Bashar al-Assad, bolstered by support from Moscow and Tehran, makes efforts to reassert its authority over the shattered country. What such efforts involve has become clear recently. In the last few weeks, air strikes by Syrian planes have killed more than 600 civilians in Ghouta, a suburb of Damascus held by the opposition since 2013. Although Isis has now been forced from almost all of its territory in Syria, other hardline Islamist groups remain very active, including one powerful organisation linked to al-Qaida. Armed opposition groups continue to receive logistical support and funding from the United States, Turkey and several Gulf countries. A Kurdish group has seized a swath of territory in the north-east. Successive efforts at peace negotiations have all failed. Why has the war lasted so long? The Syrian war has always been immensely complex, fought out along national, sectarian, ideological and ethnic divides. This alone would have guaranteed a lengthy conflict, even without the involvement of regional and international actors. The UN has been marginalised by power politics. The US has stood back. The result has been massive suffering and a broken country which, even if peace can be achieved, will need up to a trillion dollars to reconstruct itself. The toxic effects of the conflict have been felt across the world. Yemen The chaos, and resulting war, in Yemen is now in its seventh year. The immediate roots of the current conflict lie in the aftermath of an Arab spring-inspired uprising in Yemen, the Arab region\u2019s poorest country, that forced its veteran leader, Ali Abdullah Saleh, to step down in favour of his deputy Abdrabbuh Mansour Hadi in 2011. But other causes lie deeper. Yemen, once a British colony, has never been stable, and was only united after brutal conflicts in the 1990s. For more than a decade before the crisis of 2011, corruption, unemployment, food shortages, a powerful tribal system, entrenched separatism in the south, and the involvement of regional powers had combined to maintain high levels of instability. Jihadi fighters had long been a force in Yemen, developing into a powerful local al-Qaida affiliate. A popular backlash against US counter-terrorism operations, which included drone strikes, and overspill of militants from Saudi Arabia exacerbated a complicated situation. This meant President Hadi was faced by huge challenges on taking power. Chief among them was insurgency led by the Houthis, a minority Shia rebel group based in the north of Yemen with a long history of rebellion against the Sunni-dominated government. The insurgents seized Yemen\u2019s capital, Sana\u2019a, in January 2015, forcing Hadi and his government to resign. This prompted regional involvement which has led to a humanitarian crisis putting millions at risk of starvation. A coalition of Gulf states led by Saudi Arabia \u2013 which received US, British and European logistical and intelligence support \u2013 launched air strikes against the Houthis. It has also blockaded Yemen to stop Iran smuggling weapons to the rebels. Tehran denies the charge. Why has the war lasted so long? Fiendishly complicated tribal and sectarian dynamics ensure that no single faction is strong enough to win, while external involvement ensures all can stay in the fight. The conflict has drawn in more than a dozen countries and is linked to broader regional contests for power. A federal deal might bring peace but seems unlikely right now. Democratic Republic of Congo Should the Democratic Republic of the Congo slide back into the kind of conflict seen in the vast state between 1997 and 2003, it is likely that the intervening years of very relative calm will be forgotten. The six-year war, that started more than 20 years ago, was prompted by the fall of President Mobutu Sese Seko and exacerbated by the involvement of all regional powers, many attracted simply by the opportunity to loot the country\u2019s mineral and metal resources. These still remain a draw, even if there is no current appetite among its neighbours to risk the sort of chaos that led to the deaths of more than 5 million people. Yet the signs of deterioration are there: a weak central authority under President Joseph Kabila, who has outstayed his mandate by 15 months; crumbling law and order in places where there was never much government control; a growing conflict between warlords and ethnic communities; a fractured opposition; a distracted international community; and huge humanitarian need. Will the war restart? The killing and the dying has started already, with a violent rebel movement in the Kasai region prompting a brutal government response that has led to mass displacement. Cholera and other diseases surge through vulnerable populations. The United Nations deployment in the DRC suffers increasing attacks, with the deaths of 14 peacekeepers in December, the worst single loss suffered by the organisation since 1993. Elections are due to be held in December, though many doubt they will take place. The polls are a chance to arrest the slide of one of Africa\u2019s most important states back into even greater poverty and conflict. Few are optimistic. Afghanistan Afghanistan has not known peace since the mid-1970s. The current conflict, which pits the Taliban and other Islamist extremists against the government in Kabul, started in 2001 with the US-led invasion that followed the 9/11 attacks. The US has supported, first President Hamid Karzai and then his successor, Ashraf Ghani, with huge amounts of military and other aid. More than 2,000 US soldiers have died, 10 times as many Afghan soldiers, and at least 30,000 civilians. Yet the Taliban today is active in more than two-thirds of Afghanistan\u2019s administrative districts, though it controls fewer than one in 20. In 2015, the movement temporarily seized northern the city of Kunduz. Why has the war lasted so long? One reason is strategic mistakes made by the US and allies in the immediate years after the 2001 invasion. The effort in Afghanistan was poorly resourced and misdirected. Missed early opportunities to construct a stable political settlement and score relatively easy military victories proved expensive. Another key factor is the involvement of regional powers, primarily Pakistan. Islamabad sees having a friendly government in Kabul as critical to its strategic security and has backed the Taliban as a proxy, providing logistic aid and a safe haven to leaders. But there are other reasons. Almost all areas where support for the Taliban is high are dominated by the Pashtun ethnic group, especially those controlled by certain tribes. Opium-growing zones are also prominent. It is striking how closely the map of Taliban influence today mirrors that of 20 years ago, when the movement surged to power. Then, as now, Afghanistan\u2019s reputation as the \u201cgraveyard of empires\u201d rests on solid, if fractured, ground. Ukraine In February, it was four years since Russia\u2019s president, Vladimir Putin, annexed Crimea and helped foment a rebellion in the industrial east of Ukraine, \u201ca former \u2018Soviet republic\u201d independent since 1991 that lies on one of the greatest cultural and linguistic fracture lines in the world today. Thousands \u2013 fighters and civilians \u2013have died. Late last year, aid agencies warned that 4.4 million people have been directly affected by the continuing hostilities, while 3.8 million need urgent assistance. The war\u2019s roots lie in 2013, when tens of thousands protested in Kiev and elsewhere, accusing the then government of backtracking on plans to sign a EU trade deal following pressure from the Kremlin. The government used violence against protesters, who ousted President Viktor Yanukovych the following year. This led to unrest in Russophone areas in east and south Ukraine. Fighting between government forces and Russia-backed separatists continued into 2015, with Moscow denying Kiev\u2019s claims that it was sending troops and heavy weapons to the region. The \u201cMinsk agreement\u201d stipulated a ceasefire and a special constitutional status for the rebel-held territories of the Donbass region, which would reintegrate into Ukraine and hold elections. None of that has come into effect and the number of ceasefire violations runs into the thousands. More than 100 Ukrainian soldiers were killed in the Donbass region last year, according to official figures. A squalid but deadly conflict has ground on since on the very borders of Europe, receiving ever less attention from the international community. Why has the war lasted so long? Moscow has little intention of abandoning hard-won gains, despite pressure from economics sanctions. Europe and the US do not want to risk a confrontation. Sentiments within the Ukraine are as polarised as ever. Dubbed an \u201cinvisible\u201d or \u201cfrozen\u201d conflict, there is little sign of any shift that might break the deadlock."
"23||From mushy peas to exotic quinoa, UK shoppers are full of beans \u2026 and pulsesSome may like it hot, others may like it cold, but for many people pease pudding is the last thing they would order from the menu. Similarly, mushy peas have enjoyed something of a mixed reputation with those who enjoy a side with their fish and chips. Now these two oft-unloved traditional British dishes \u2013 and the homegrown split and marrowfat peas from which they are made \u2013 are to be revived and championed in the first UK festival celebrating the \u201cmagic and variety\u201d of dal. Dal is any split pulse \u2013 the humble lentil, bean or pea \u2013 or pulse stew or soup, its best-known incarnation being the Indian comfort food and curry house favourite. The festival will showcase the huge variety of pulses now grown in the UK, such as fava beans and split yellow and green peas \u2013 all perfect ingredients for dal but which many people will never have thought to use. In medieval times, dried beans and peas were a staple food and the main source of protein for most of the UK population, but as meat and dairy foods became more widely accessible pulses became stigmatised as the food of the poor. Now the recent shift towards so-called \u201cclean\u201d eating and veganism has meant that pulses, lentils, peas and beans are seeing something of a revival. \u201cAs a nation, we clearly love baked beans, and who would have thought that a Middle Eastern classic like hummus would become a UK supermarket staple?\u201d says Nick Saltmarsh, co-founder and managing director of Hodmedod, a Suffolk-based pioneer of British-grown pulses and grains founded five years ago. \u201cWe have found that the rise of plant-based eating has led to strong interest in our products, but we hope the festival will inspire consumers not just to buy pulses but to buy British pulses.\u201d Most UK-grown fava beans \u2013 dried broad beans \u2013 for example, are exported to the Middle East and northern Africa and others are used for animal and fish feed. The organisers of the festival want to boost UK interest in beans such as the fava, which can be used for dishes including homemade baked beans. Although UK shoppers are the world\u2019s biggest consumers of baked beans, the dried haricot or navy beans used in the leading brands are imported from North America. The event is the idea of the British Edible Pulses Association and will take place in Bristol later this month. Through a slew of trails, tastings and educational activities across the city, visitors will be able to sample the traditional spiced dals of the Indian subcontinent alongside the refried beans of Mexico, the fava bean dips of Greece and, of course, Britain\u2019s pease pudding and mushy peas. Chefs such as Meera Sodha and Cyrus Todiwala are among those who have contributed new recipes for the event using British-grown pulses and grains. They include marrowfat peas, fava beans, haricot beans, badger or carlin beans and quinoa. Last autumn, Hodmedod launched the UK\u2019s first commercial crops of lentils, grown on farms across Britain. It is ramping up production to meet demand and is about to launch the first UK-grown chia seeds \u2013 a food which originated in the Americas. \u201cBeans and pulses are such an important part of Middle Eastern cooking, but getting a good and consistent supply of them is near impossible in this country and you never really know the source and how fresh they are,\u201d said Itamar Srulovich, the Israeli chef and co-founder of London\u2019s Honey &amp; Co restaurant group. \u201cThere are so many dishes we were keen to cook but couldn\u2019t, things like Ta\u2019amiya [an Egyptian falafel] or fava [a Greek dip made with split yellow peas].\u201d Supermarkets are slowly getting in on the act and Marks &amp; Spencer and Waitrose stock British-grown quinoa. A Waitrose spokeswoman said: \u201cShoppers are on the lookout for British-grown versions of ingredients traditionally grown overseas. Sales of our organic British quinoa are up 15% compared with last year.\u201d"
"3||The sandwich that took 10 months to make (\u2026 sow, grow, catch and bake)If there is an easy way to do something, Benjamin Carle does not do it. So when the Frenchman wanted a sandwich, it was out of the question to buy one from his local boulangerie. Instead, he set out to make one from scratch. From sowing the wheat to produce flour, to baking the bread, to building a vegetable garden on a Paris rooftop and fishing for tuna, to raising chickens for eggs. Ten months later, Carle, 30, had his sandwich, which he insisted tasted all the better for the effort expended to make it. He also claimed the exercise revealed a modern-day existential truth: that the millennial generation is engaged in a desperate search for something to do with their hands. \u201cMy girlfriend knits and I saw all around me more and more people who have nice day jobs but spend their evenings doing some kind of manual activity and telling the rest of us about it,\u201d Carle said. \u201cWe are all in DIY-mode. It\u2019s as if our intellectual jobs are too abstract and not satisfying enough. People are happier with some kind of material reality.\u201d It is not the first time Carle has made life difficult for himself. In 2013, he set out to live using only French-made products as part of a TV documentary. He was declared 96.9% \u201cmade in France\u201d after judges found six Ikea forks, a Chinese-made guitar and wall paint of unknown origin in his Paris apartment. The latest challenge is also the subject of a Canal+ documentary, called Sandwich (or How I Made My Own Snack While Questioning the Manual Capabilities of the French and While Trying to Find Some Personal Pride). In it, we see Carle breaking his back digging a plot to grow wheat, pressing olives for oil and boiling sea water for salt to make a pan bagnat, a speciality sandwich from Nice filled with garlic, olive oil, salt, tomatoes, radishes, spring onions, artichokes, green pepper, tuna, egg and basil. Only a spell on a Basque fishing boat revealed Carle\u2019s limits. Green-faced, he is forced to admit landing a 65kg tuna is a day job \u201cfar too complicated for me \u2026 and I feel seasick\u201d. Carle believes the mass-produced sandwich, two billion of which are eaten every year in France, is a \u201csymbol of a loss of savoir faire and rampant consumerism\u201d. His generation\u2019s reaction to this was a quest to regain the ability to make things for themselves, he said. In the documentary, Carle speaks to a philosopher, a survivalist, and back-to-nature enthusiasts attempting to reproduce the daily life of prehistoric mankind, including rubbing sticks to make fire. \u201cWork life is less and less satisfying to the point of making us unhappy. It\u2019s almost vital to find something else to do,\u201d Carle said, adding that the increasing distance between the consumer and the point of production had left many frustrated. \u201cThe modern world leaves us feeling useless with our hands; we feel a need to do something with them, to get them dirty. It seemed ridiculous to me that I was proud of having planted tomatoes. It\u2019s so much easier to go out and buy whatever we want that the real challenge becomes in actually making it ourselves. I think, in some senses, we are voluntarily going backwards.\u201d Was the sandwich any good? \u201cIt was excellent, great,\u201d Carle said. \u201cIf I\u2019m being honest, the bread was a bit dry but even if it had been disgusting, I\u2019d have found it absolutely delicious.\u201d"
"12||The Observer view on Theresa May\u2019s Brexit speechBe in no doubt. Theresa May\u2019s watershed Brexit speech on Friday was a sobering defeat for the UK. It was a defeat for the Leavers\u2019 vision of a sovereign country freed from the constraints imposed by European politicians, laws and regulations. It was a defeat for those who voted Remain and hoped against hope that Britain would, at the last moment, draw back from this gross act of national self-harm. May\u2019s speech, signalling a fundamental parting of the ways, was a defeat for the business people, trade unionists and community leaders who rightly fear for the country\u2019s future prosperity, cohesion and jobs. It was a defeat for young people, British and European, who, more so than older generations, will perforce inhabit an ugly new world of harder borders, work permits, bureaucracy and pervasive state intrusion. Looked at in a wider context, May\u2019s speech marked a moment of British retreat from the shared ideals and principles of collaborative internationalism that have guided the western democracies since 1945. It presaged a historic abdication of leadership that many in Europe and beyond will neither understand nor quickly forgive. The gaunt post-Brexit future towards which May is stubbornly leading us will make Britain a poorer, meaner, lonelier and shabbier place, hostile to immigrants yet badly in need of their skills, struggling to maintain its trade across the barriers we ourselves erected, and exploited by the world\u2019s big economies whose governments and multinationals, imposing unequal trade treaties, will take what they want and leave the rest. May\u2019s speech was welcomed by hard Tory Brexiters, who imagine that quitting the EU single market and customs union, whatever the consequences, is a sufficient victory for their blinkered, jingoistic cause. It was seen by Tory Remainers as recognition of the need for compromise. And this blurry reconciliation of her party\u2019s schismatic factions, albeit probably temporary, was May\u2019s main achievement. It may be a good deal for the Tories. It is a bad deal for Britain. Bad because, in overall terms, the proposed settlement is neither one thing nor the other. Britain will not have its cake and eat it, in Boris Johnson\u2019s preposterous parlance. It will simply have less cake. May rejected the single market largely because of its freedom-of-movement provisions. Even though employers have been telling her for months that Britain relies on EU workers, the prime minister remains foolishly frit of Daily Mail spectres of invading foreign hordes. Yet even as she rejected it, May recognised the benefits of the single market, sought continued, frictionless, access to it, and lamely admitted that we will all be the poorer for being outside it. What kind of leadership is this? Such self-contradictory thinking would give Descartes a headache. The same applies to her Through the Looking Glass \u201ccustoms partnership\u201d wheeze that, she said, would \u201cmirror EU requirements\u201d. If she means future customs arrangements will be reversed, back to front and inside out, she may well be right. What a nightmare of red tape is now in prospect from those who promised a liberating bonfire on the cliffs of Dover and will create, instead, a giant lorry-park. Bowing to Brussels, May accepted that post-Brexit Britain would be obliged to observe EU-approved regulatory standards. She agreed with Michel Barnier that competition rules must remain unchanged, to ensure a level playing field. She confessed that, thanks to her, the City of London would lose valuable passporting rights. And she offered to pay cash to stay in selected EU agencies while surrendering any overall say in how the EU is run. May has made previous, reluctant concessions to reality. One is that Britain must pay a large divorce bill fixed by Brussels. Another is that the rights of EU citizens must be upheld during the post-2019 transition. On Friday, her unsustainable position was further exposed to the hard light of day. After all that noisome backbench huffing and puffing about sovereignty and the diktats of foreign judges, May agreed that the European court of justice will continue to have a significant role. Even this prime minister\u2019s special talent for delusional politics cannot conceal the fact that she still has no real clue how to avoid a hard border with the Republic of Ireland. A few cameras and a trusted trader scheme will simply not hack it when the other 27 EU members come to consider their security, migration and trade rules. Nor is there much reason to believe that they will agree a bespoke, pick-and-mix free-trading arrangement that has never been tried and undermines existing practice. Even if they were willing, there is not enough time left before the guillotine falls next March. When May said she wanted to be \u201cstraight\u201d with people and that Britain had to face the \u201chard facts\u201d of Brexit, it seems she was talking first and foremost to herself. For her, finally, it was wake-up time. This sudden dawn of pragmatic realism is welcome. But at this point a basic question becomes unavoidable: what on earth is she trying to achieve? Given the emerging shape of this unfavourable, damaging and overly complex \u201cEU lite\u201d deal, is Brexit, as now envisaged, really worth the trouble? Better, perhaps, to admit we made a mistake in 2016 and humbly ask for time to reconsider."
"12||Taking \u2018no DSS\u2019 landlords to court was a real social serviceAfter paying her rent in full and on time in the same place for 11 years, Rosie Keogh found herself unable to rent a new property in Birmingham when a lettings agent discovered she was receiving housing benefit and rejected her application. Keogh, a cleaner, former legal worker and modern-day hero, took the agency to court and won an out-of-court settlement of \u00a32,000, after arguing that the ban on benefits indirectly discriminated against women, who are more likely to be claimants as they are more likely to be caring for children. I have relatively few responsibilities, a decent enough income, no dependents, and my experience of the private rental market over 15 years has been around 20% fine, 10% good and 70% hellish. I can only imagine the added complication of facing the cruel and now potentially discriminatory \u201cno DSS\u201d rule. According to Shelter, almost half of all private landlords have an outright ban on letting to people on benefits. I moved again recently, and from my own search for a new place, noticed that \u201cno DSS\u201d popped up most often on private, non-agency ads. Ironically, going through those private ads is one of the only ways of grasping at some relief from astronomical estate agency fees, which, despite government promises to ban them, are hanging around like a persistent patch of damp, and will continue to do so until at least 2019. In some respects, seeing \u201cno DSS\u201d did have its uses, in that it marked out which landlords to avoid, and it joined \u201cshared bathroom\u201d, \u201cshower in kitchen\u201d and \u201cdoor broken from recent burglary\u201d on our list of things that meant it probably wasn\u2019t going to be our dream home. When Keogh took her case to court, she was insisting that people looking for homes be treated as such, not as potential risks to profit margins. As I said, she\u2019s a modern-day hero. \u2022 Rebecca Nicholson is an Observer columnist"
"12||The irresponsible know-nothing right that treats everything as a jokeCulture wars are endless because their participants enjoy them so. It\u2019s fun, if you are on the right, to mock liberal double standards and break liberal taboos. So much fun, it becomes instinctive: a way of lashing out rather than a way of thinking. If the left is dominated by puritan preachers who denounce the faults of everyone but themselves, the right is dominated by a satirical \u201ccontrarian culture\u201d, which is now so predictable there\u2019s nothing contrary about it. Liberals and leftists are humourless hypocrites, the party line runs. At Oxfam or in Hollywood, they satisfy the brute desires they deplore in others. In the privacy of their Tuscan and Hampstead homes they show every indication of wanting to hoard rather than share their wealth. Worst of all they are elitists, who look down their dainty noses at the masses who voted for Brexit and Trump, and damn them as racist fools. The satirical right dominates the conservative web and newspapers because it delivers the occasional truth about liberal hypocrisy, which you do not have to be a conservative to appreciate. Satire worked as a counter-culture protest because from the 1990s until 2016 the \u201cestablishment\u201d was politically correct, and most of us enjoy seeing the pomposity of the powerful punctured. As the contrarians head to power, however, outsiders can see the teeth behind the smirk. The label that has stuck to the demagogues who dominate British and American politics is \u201cthe alt-right\u201d. But, as Brexit is proving, it is as much a \u201cbullshit right\u201d. I am not being vulgar but am drawing on the work of Harry G Frankfurt. Unlike liars, who at least know the truth when they deceive, the philosopher explained, bullshitters have no concern for truth. They don\u2019t care if they are lying or not. They just say whatever it takes to win. \u201cBy virtue of this,\u201d Frankfurt ruled, \u201cbullshit is a greater enemy of the truth than lies are.\u201d Truth is not bullshit\u2019s only enemy. The frivolity with which a generation of rightwingers treated politics leaves them without an idea of how to govern when they become the establishment they once despised. Even when they are in power, they still do not think they should have something as boring as a workable plan. I could go through every false promise made by the Leave campaign from the \u00a3350m a week for the NHS to the pledge that German car manufacturers would ensure we could have our cake and eat it. I could present you with the whole life of Boris Johnson from the moment he emerged bawling from the womb. But one scene from January will suffice, because it encapsulated the modern right. Hilary Benn quoted a promise David Davis made in 2016 that Britain would negotiate trade deals far larger than our single market agreement with the EU within two years. Davis could not believe anyone could have believed his bullshit, and burst out laughing. \u201cI think that was before I was a minister,\u201d he said. \u201cThat was then and this is now. Ha, ha, ha!\u201d Meanwhile, the absolutism with which they fought the culture war against liberalism makes compromise impossible. Compromise would turn them into the kind of politician they have spent their lives attacking: the Europhiles, the experts, the third-wayers, the modernising Tories, the bores. And if habit is not enough to constrain them, they, like their counterparts on the left, are well aware that the smallest deviation from ideological purity will result in cries of betrayal from their former friends. To take the most shocking instance, many of us warned that Brexit was, in George Orwell\u2019s words, a \u201cplaying with fire by people who don\u2019t even know that fire is hot\u201d. In 2016 Daniel Hannan had the integrity to admit his one fear about Brexit was that it would \u201cmess up\u201d relations with Ireland. But rather than compromise, rather than say we must stay in the customs union for the sake of peace in Ireland and frictionless trade through Heathrow and Dover, he now forgets what integrity he possessed and joins the rest of the bullshit right in saying it\u2019s safe to sacrifice the \u201cfailed\u201d Good Friday agreement for the greater good of protecting rightwing purity. The Brexiters are trapped, and their power to force a vote of no confidence in Theresa May means they have taken the prime minister captive too. Last week Tony Blair and Sir John Major expressed their astonishment at how she was failing to level with the public about the economic consequences of leaving the single market. As Major elegantly put it \u2013 and there\u2019s a phrase I never thought I\u2019d write \u2013 \u201cIt is as necessary to speak truth to the people as it is to speak truth to power.\u201d May has not been speaking truth, and nor has Corbyn. If the PM were ready to take on the right, she would say that the single market forces us to make a hard choice between sovereignty and prosperity. We can have one or the other but not both. On Friday she tried to retreat from absolutist positions: there would be a role for the European court after Brexit, Britain would sign \u201cbinding commitments\u201d to maintain regulatory alignment with the EU. The Tory right seemed to accept it, but then they seemed to accept her commitment in her Florence speech to stay in the customs union and single market during the transition phase, only to turn on her later. They will turn on her again because they have no choice but to find hypocrites and sellouts. That\u2019s what the contrarian pose they have struck teaches them to do. That\u2019s what they must do if they are not themselves to face accusations of selling out. The new culture on the right was well suited for opposition. In government its irresponsibility, its intransigence and its dilettantish, know-nothing contempt for detail can only lead Britain to ruin. \u2022 Nick Cohen is an Observer columnist"
"3||In a German grand coalition or not, SPD\u2019s survival is at riskWhen Dietmar Nietan, treasurer of the German Social Democrats, takes the stage at the party\u2019s Berlin headquarters at 9am today, the world will be watching closely \u2013 but the thoughts of his fellow functionaries will already be wandering to the challenges of the weeks ahead. If Nietan announces that members of Germany\u2019s centre-left party have voted against a coalition with Angela Merkel\u2019s conservative Christian Democratic Union (CDU), the country will be plunged into political chaos and questions will arise over the future of a chancellor who can no longer organise political alliances. If, as expected, Nietan reports a yes vote, it will end five months of political paralysis in Europe\u2019s largest economy, but also pile pressure on the Social Democrats to reverse the party\u2019s freefall in the polls and stop the erosion of one of the two central pillars of Germany\u2019s postwar order. Both of the SPD\u2019s previous coalitions with Merkel as a senior partner have ended in the party recording historically poor results in national polls. This time around, senior members want to try a different, more aggressive formula. They hope to have found a suitably combative new figurehead in Andrea Nahles, a former leader of the Young Socialist youth wing. She has a leftwing slant, a reputation as a forceful orator, and once mocked Merkel by singing a version of the Pippi Longstocking theme song in the Bundestag. Nahles, who is likely to take over leadership of Europe\u2019s oldest social democratic party from Martin Schulz at a summit in April, faces the challenge of taking the fight to a conservative CDU that shares the government benches with her party colleagues. A former labour minister, she is not expected to take up a role in the next cabinet, and would therefore have a freer rein to use her rhetorical skills in a parliament shaken by the arrival of the Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland (AfD), the first overtly nationalist party in the Bundestag for half a century. While the AfD will become the biggest opposition party in the event of a grand coalition, the presence of the rightwing populists has also encouraged liberal and leftwing parties to up their game. Clips of verbal sparring acts are now going viral in a way that used to be rare in the staid world of German politics. The SPD is already priming its first weapon for the fightback: last Friday the party submitted a draft law to scrap paragraph 219a of the German penal code, which currently criminalises the \u201cadvertising\u201d of abortion services. The proposal is likely to be opposed by a CDU with strong Catholic support, and could see just the sort of public clash that Nahles needs to raise her profile. But if the success of the German centre-left\u2019s new strategy is up in the air, it\u2019s because the challenge is nothing short of existential. Weeks of coalition talks have seen the AfD overtake the SPD to claim second place behind Merkel\u2019s Christian Democrats in some polls. The former Social Democrat finance minister Peer Steinbr\u00fcck said last Friday: \u201cLike the Socialists in France, the SPD is in danger of caring more about anti-discrimination and lifestyle issues than the concerns of the majority of the population.\u201d Among its working-class base, the SPD is haemorrhaging votes to the far right. In the town of Cottbus, near the Polish border, the Social Democrats were the strongest force as recently as 2014. But tensions between locals and refugees have harmed the SPD more than the CDU: in a poll last week the party lost 17 percentage points, and the AfD came top with 29%. \u201cEvery recent grand coalition has weakened the SPD and strengthened the far right\u201d, said the Cologne-based film-maker and SPD member Steve Hudson, who led a campaign for a no vote. \u201cThe next one could end in the death of the Social Democratic party in Germany.\u201d Support for the centre-left among young and middle-class voters also seems to be draining away, either to leftwing Die Linke, which topped a recent poll for the 2021 Berlin state elections, or to the Green party, which is remaking itself under a new liberal-centrist leadership. \u201cThe SPD\u2019s problem is that it is no longer the strongest party in socially relevant circles,\u201d said political scientist and SPD expert Gero Neugebauer. \u201cIt has ceded ground to Die Linke and the AfD among the workers, and is losing votes to the Greens amongst the bourgeoisie. \u201cThey say they need to deal with the threat of the new right, but their problem is less the AfD than a lack of answers on the issues the AfD is thriving on. The SPD, like the whole of German politics, is still struggling to identify what the challenges of globalisation really are.\u201d"
"12||Can Civilisations make sense of art when we have different ways of seeing?\u2018Never again will a single story be told as though it were the only one.\u201d So says Giovanni in John Berger\u2019s 1972 Booker prize-winning novel G. The line became an epigram to both Michael Ondaatje\u2019s novel In the Skin of a Lion and Arundhati Roy\u2019s The God of Small Things. It could also be an epigram to the new BBC series Civilisations, which began last week. Presented jointly by Simon Schama, Mary Beard and David Olusoga, it has been heralded as the remaking for a new era of Civilisation, Kenneth Clark\u2019s landmark 1969 series. The ghost that hovers over Civilisations is not, however, that of Clark, but that of Berger. Three years after Civilisation came Berger\u2019s series Ways of Seeing. \u201cThe relation between what we see and what we know,\u201d he tells us in the opening scene, \u201cis never settled.\u201d It was a direct riposte to Clark. For Clark, every artwork embodies unique qualities and an inherent meaning that has to be drawn out and explained. For Berger, the meaning and worth of art rests not just in the frame or the marble but also in the relationship between the viewer and the object. Meaning is not intrinsic but emerges only in the viewing. At different points in space and time, and from different vantage points in any society, Berger insists, the meaning of the same work of art will necessarily be different. As a model for documentary-making, Clark\u2019s Civilisation became highly influential. But as a means of understanding art, it is Berger\u2019s Ways of Seeing that has shaped contemporary thinking. \u201cThe history of art,\u201d Mary Beard tells us in episode two of Civilisations, \u201cisn\u2019t just a history of artists\u2026 It\u2019s also the history of the men and women who looked, who interpreted what they saw, and of the changing ways in which they did so.\u201d The very title of Beard\u2019s episode, How Do We Look?, echoes Berger. Yet, strangely, there appears to be no acknowledgment of that debt. Berger\u2019s approach raises profound questions about how we tell the story of art; indeed how we tell any kind of history. If there is always more than one story to be told, if meanings are always contested, which story should we tell, and which meaning should we accept? Or must we simply live with the fact that there will always be a multiplicity of stories and meanings, and that we can never settle on one as being definitive, still less as \u201ctrue\u201d? It\u2019s a debate that has raged in recent decades, with the rise of \u201cpostmodern\u201d visions, the deprecation of \u201cgrand narratives\u201d, and the shift towards a more relativist appreciation of culture and history. Clark told a simple story of the progress of western art to \u201cthe dazzling summit of human achievement\u201d in the Renaissance followed by the uncertainties leading to \u201cthe chaos of modern art\u201d. Civilisations rightly unpicks that easy narrative. But what to replace it with? In the first episode, Simon Schama takes us through vast leaps in time and space, from cave art to cubism, from China to Mexico. The effect is exhilarating. In one scene we cut from the astonishingly sketched 15,000-year-old bison on the walls of caves in Altamira, Spain, to a series of Picasso\u2019s lithographs, dating from 1945, that move from a fully fleshed-out beast, uncannily resembling an Altamira bison, to more abstracted depictions, until the beast is finally deconstructed to little more than a few swift hand strokes. Schama talks of \u201cPicasso\u2019s belief that the hand of the artist never really changes\u201d, adding that \u201cI agree with Picasso\u201d. Whether Picasso actually believed this is a matter of controversy. But what does such a belief say about art? Has the hand of the artist \u2013 the skill and technique and meaning it embodies \u2013 really remained unchanged since the days of cave paintings? It\u2019s a thrilling journey, too, as we jump across space from the Minoans in the Mediterranean to the Sanxingdui of bronze age China to the Mayan culture of fifth-century Mexico. But, again: what is it that joins it all together? Is there a narrative that wraps round all those different expressions of \u201ccivilisation\u201d? Or are they to be seen as simply distinct expressions, each understood only in its own terms, and connected only by a common human impulse to creativity? Posing such questions may be the greatest strength of Civilisations. Answering it may be almost impossible. And that may turn out to be the series\u2019 most profound weakness. \u2022 Writer, lecturer and broadcaster Kenan Malik is an Observer columnist"
"16||Badger cull faces review as bovine TB goes on risingThe government is to review the controversial badger cull as part of an inquiry into its strategy to clamp down on bovine TB. The review raises the possibility that experts conducting it will examine disputed evidence about the cull\u2019s efficacy, potentially paving the way for a change in policy. When the review was announced last month, its terms of reference said it would \u201cnot revisit the rationale for current interventions in the strategy. It will take a prospective and not a retrospective view. It is not a review of badger culling.\u201d Rosie Woodroffe, a senior research fellow at the Zoological Society of London, Institute of Zoology, told the Vet Times that the review was \u201cdisappointing because its scope excludes badger culling, which is the most controversial and least evidence-led part of the strategy\u201d. The number of badgers culled has risen from 615 animals in 2014 to 19,274 in 2017 as the scheme has been extended. But the number of cows that succumbed to tuberculosis rose from 27,474 to 42,000 as the disease has spread. Launching the review, farming minister George Eustice said early analysis of the first two cull zones suggested that it was reducing the incidence of the disease, a claim disputed by conservationists. Now a spokesman for the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) has explicitly confirmed that the badger cull will form part of the review, leading to claims that the government has quietly orchestrated a U-turn. This was denied by the spokesman, who told the Observer: \u201cWe have always made clear that this review will consider all areas of our existing bovine TB strategy, including culling.\u201d The badger campaigner, Tom Langton, said the decision to omit the cull from the original scope of the review was proof that Defra had been \u201crunning scared of the vet and cattle industry\u201d who believe it is vital for the disease to be eradicated. He called for the terms of reference to be changed so that the review would take both a retrospective and prospective view. \u201cHow will the review panel know what to do?\u201d Langton asked. \u201cIs it being asked to ignore crucial aspects of cattle measures and badger killing by ignoring what has gone wrong over the last five years? Is this an attempt to fudge the issue so that the review has no clear remit?\u201d"
"21||How to persuade a robot that you should get the jobAccording to Nathan Mondragon, finding the right employee is all about looking at the little things. Tens of thousands of little things, as it turns out. Mondragon is head psychologist at HireVue, which markets software for screening job candidates. Its flagship product, used by Unilever and Goldman Sachs, asks candidates to answer interview questions in front of a camera. Meanwhile its software, like a team of hawk-eyed psychologists hiding behind a mirror, takes note of barely perceptible changes in posture, facial expression and vocal tone. \u201cWe break the answers people give down into many thousands of data points, into verbal and non-verbal cues,\u201d says Mondragon. \u201cIf you\u2019re answering a question about how you would spend a million dollars, your eyes would tend to shift upward, your verbal cues would go silent. Your head would tilt slightly upward with your eyes.\u201d The program turns this data into a score, which is then compared against one the program has already \u201clearned\u201d from top-performing employees. The idea is that a good prospective employee looks a lot like a good current employee, just not in any way a human interviewer would notice. Approaches like vocal analysis and reading \u201cmicroexpressions\u201d have been applied in policing and intelligence with little clear success. But Mondragon says automated analyses compare favourably with established tests of personality and ability, and that customers report better employee performance and less turnover. HireVue is just one of a slew of new companies selling AI as a replacement for the costly human side of hiring. It estimates the \u201cpre-hire assessment\u201d market is worth $3bn (\u00a32.2bn) a year. A study in the UK last year found an average of 24 applicants per low-wage job. Tesco, the country\u2019s largest private employer, received well over three million job applications in 2016. With applications rising, employers have automated as much of the process as possible. This started more than a decade ago with simple programs that scanned text CVs for key words. It has now expanded to include quizzes, psychometric tests, games and chatbots that can reject applicants before a human ever glances at their CV. Jobseekers are forced to prepare for whatever format a prospective employer has chosen, a familiar power shift in the gig economy era. And without human interaction or feedback, an already difficult process has become deeply alienating. Beyond the dehumanising experience lurk the usual concerns that attend automation and AI, which uses data often shaped by inequality. If you suspect you\u2019ve been discriminated against by an algorithm, what recourse do you have? How vulnerable are those formulas to bias? And is it inevitable that non-traditional or poorer candidates, or those who struggle with new technology, will be excluded from the process? \u201cIt\u2019s a bit dehumanising, never being able to get through to an employer,\u201d says Robert, a plumber in his 40s whom I met at a weekly jobs club in London. He uses job boards and recruiters to find temporary work. Harry, 24, has been searching for a job for four months. In retail \u201cjust about every job opening\u201d requires a test or game. He completes four or five a week. The rejections are often instant, piling up without a word of feedback. Every time you start again from zero. \u201cYou never know what you\u2019ve done wrong. It leaves you feeling a bit trapped,\u201d Harry says. The problem is worst for older jobseekers. Many rely on support from councils or voluntary services to help them fill out applications. \u201cIt\u2019s a big barrier. Why is an older guy who was a bricklayer suddenly expected to have IT skills?\u201d asks Lynda Pennington, who organises another jobs club in Croydon. After 86 unsuccessful job applications in two years \u2013 including several HireVue screenings \u2013 Deborah Caldeira is thoroughly disillusioned with automated systems. Without a person across the table, there\u2019s \u201cno real conversation or exchange\u201d, and it\u2019s difficult to know \u201cexactly what the robot is looking for\u201d, says Caldeira, who has a master\u2019s degree from the London School of Economics. Despite her qualifications, she found herself questioning every movement as she sat at home alone performing for a computer. \u201cIt makes us feel that we\u2019re not worthwhile, as the company couldn\u2019t even assign a person for a few minutes. The whole thing is becoming less human,\u201d she says. A fightback against automation has emerged, as applicants search for ways to game the system. On web forums, students trade answers to employers\u2019 tests and create fake applications to gauge their processes. One HR employee for a major technology company recommends slipping the words \u201cOxford\u201d or \u201cCambridge\u201d into a CV in invisible white text, to pass the automated screening. Measures are under way to tip the balance of power back to those seeking work, according to Christina Colclough, director of digitalisation and trade at UNI Global Union, a federation of trade unions. They include a charter of digital rights for workers touching on automated and AI-based decisions, to be included in bargaining agreements. An imminent update to the EU general data protection regulation will require a company to disclose whenever a decision that \u201csignificantly affects an individual\u201d has been automated. But even minimal human involvement \u2013 approving a list of automatically ranked CVs, for example \u2013 could exempt companies from such regulations, warns Sandra Wachter, a lawyer and research fellow in data ethics at the Oxford Internet Institute. She also notes that a much-discussed \u201cright to explanation\u201d of automated decisions will not be legally binding."
"6||Muhammad Ali in Miami: 7 March 1971The truth is that Muhammad Ali has done a fair amount of fooling around, haranguing the paying spectators at his work-outs, eulogizing himself and dismissing Frazier as a second-rate street-fighter, a short-armed hooker who will never get past his jab. But mainly in these moments he gives the impression of remembering a part he played in another show. One striking exception was the day he took Burt Lancaster, who has connections with the promoters, on a Pied Piper\u2019s tour of the black ghetto area of central Miami. As Ali leapt from his Cadillac, five years fell away and he was the compelling, hysterically ebullient champion who had led me noisily through the same district three weeks before his title fight with Henry Cooper. \u201cI bring the greatest movie stars in the world to see y\u2019all,\u201d he shouted, thrusting the nervous actor out of the afternoon glare into the dark interior of a bus. As he strode past Moon\u2019s Recreation Hall and the barber shops and drug stores, the crowd around him swelled and Lancaster was not the only member of the tiny white minority who was uneasy. An undercurrent of violence eddied through the blacks who closed on all sides. Two or three of them challenged Ali to spar, and a tall, wild-looking man in an Apache wig who called himself Nicodemus went at the boxer with dangerous briskness. Ali was their hero, but too many of them wanted to acquire glory by the laying on of hands. Some of us were given a lift back from the ghetto by Smokey the Bear, a large black wrestler who had attached himself to the camp. He agreed that the situation had been delicate for a few minutes. \u201cBut Reggie would have taken care of it,\u201d he said. Reggie Thomas is a Muslim agent from Chicago who acts as chauffeur and bodyguard to Ali these days. He favours single colours, white or blue, from his flat cap to his pull-on boots. He is small and light-skinned, with the excessively composed features and mobile eyes of the professional bodyguard. Joe Frazier said last week he would never fight in an alley unless he \u201cwas dressed\u201d. He did not have to draw diagrams. Reggie is almost certainly dressed. Extract from the feature by Hugh McIlvanney in the Observer\u2019s Review section."
"12||The past haunts the present in all areas of our national conversationIt is rare for a dusty old document, fished out of a provincial archive, to become national news. It is even more rare for the people rummaging around the archives to be hard-nosed hacks rather than earnest PhD students. That is what happened last week after the Daily Mail went digging into the past of Max Mosley, former president of Formula One\u2019s governing body and son of Sir Oswald Mosley, the leader of the fascist \u201cBlackshirts\u201d. After the war, the elder Mosley formed a new far-right party, the Union Movement. Between the late 1940s and the early 70s, it went to the hustings offering the British electorate a ragbag of policies that included a hysterical opposition to immigration by black and brown people from the Commonwealth. The unearthed campaign leaflet claimed that \u201ccoloured immigrants\u201d were being used to lower the living standards of working-class Britons and that they spread tuberculosis, venereal disease and leprosy. Inconveniently, the leaflet carried the name of the party\u2019s election agent, one Max Mosley. As agent, Mosley was legally responsible for the words used. While old documents being thrust into the centre of the news cycle might be unusual, what isn\u2019t rare today is for past events to shape debates about the present. Many of the biggest news stories of 2017 and 2018 arose from events that took place many years earlier. The subtext to everything from the #MeToo Campaign to angry debates over statues of slave traders and Confederate generals, is the exposure of past misdeeds. The past has returned to shape the present and shame the powerful. Current events have, in a sense, never been less current. In multiple cases the media strategies deployed by those accused of wrongdoing have fallen back on a \u201cstandards of the time\u201d defence. The arguments go along familiar lines: we are urged to remember what it was like \u201cback then\u201d, reminded that it was \u201ca different age\u201d, which can\u2019t be judged by \u201cthe standards of today\u201d. The great strength of this defence is that there is some truth to it. After all, most people in most periods of history tend to follow the accepted views and attitudes of their age, as far as we know. As the views of women, children and poor people were usually of little interest to those in power, how closely they adhered to accepted opinions and moral fashion is more difficult to judge. But for people to make moral choices, for which they might reasonably be judged, they have to have been able to see the alternatives and had access to opposing views. Could they have known differently? That is one of the big questions historians ask themselves. The conclusions reached at the end of such deliberations are almost always complicated, and at the back of the historian\u2019s mind lingers a horrible question \u2013 how will future generations view us? What will our frankly disastrous custodianship of the environment look like to our grandchildren? Who is looking forward to the questions they are going to ask us in our dotage, about air travel or SUVs? And what about modern industrial agriculture \u2013 will future generations look back in horror at our annual processing and consumption of literally billions of animals? History is morally complicated and rarely neat, but the great weakness of the \u201cstandards of the time\u201d defence is that it tends to portray as universal views that were controversial at the time, by no means accepted by all. There\u2019s no doubt views like those expressed in the Union Movement leaflet were part of the political debate in 1961, three years before the infamous Smethwick election, in which some Conservatives reportedly used the slogan \u201cIf you want a nigger for a neighbour, vote Labour\u201d, a phrase introduced by a far-right party. According to Harold Macmillan, Winston Churchill thought the 1955 general election should be fought under the slogan \u201ckeep Britain white\u201d. On the day the Empire Windrush landed at Tilbury, 11 Labour MPs wrote to their prime minister Clement Attlee warning that \u201can influx of coloured people domiciled here is likely to impair the harmony, strength and cohesion of our people and social life and cause discord and unhappiness among all concerned\u201d. Such views, though, were anything but universal. The \u201cstandards of the time\u201d trope risks doing a disservice to our ancestors, because to suggest that the people of early 1960s Britain were universally hostile to the arrival of black migrants \u2013 or, for that matter, that our Georgian forebears were universally supportive of slavery and the slave trade, or that everyone in the 1890s viewed Africans in the same way that Cecil Rhodes did \u2013 is to slander those who rejected such ideas. Political views are never universally held; they varied as much within periods of the past as they do between them. To suggest otherwise is to use history as a cover for wrongdoing. Where things get philosophical is on another point Max Mosley made during his car crash interview with the formidable Cathy Newman of Channel 4 News. During that bruising exchange, Mosley stated that the leaflet from 1961 \u201cdoes not reflect my views today\u201d. This raises real questions. Do 77-year-olds have a right to denounce their past views? Crimes and abuses have victims and therefore cannot be undone, but views and positions can be repudiated. Almost everyone has youthful opinions that they later rejected. The hand-wringing, bleeding heart liberal in me wants to believe that along the journey from one\u2019s 20s to 70s, minds can be changed and that sometimes the better angels win out. However, Max Mosley\u2019s more recent support for apartheid makes me suspect that I am being overly optimistic. And as the process by which the crimes of the apartheid regime were uncovered viscerally demonstrated, before there can be reconciliation and reappraisal there has to come truth. Had it been Max Mosley himself, the author of a hefty autobiography, who had dug out this leaflet from his past then things might look very different. Were he to apologise to West Indian migrants who suffered the effects of the racism the Union Movement stirred up, then the picture might look rosier. And were Mosley more fully prepared to acknowledge that the claims made in the 1961 leaflet were inaccurate and racist, then the idea that a half-century-old leaflet might be the reflection of his twentysomething self rather than the septuagenarian would be easier to swallow. David Olusoga is a historian and broadcaster whose work includes Civilisations"
"24||A woman\u2019s place \u2026 is in the tenors: female singers revel in opera\u2019s looser gender divideIn the world of opera, the question \u201cwho wears the trousers?\u201d has suddenly become harder to answer. Looser gender divisions in casting, and a new understanding of the effect of changing hormones on the voice, mean that \u2013 for divas in particular \u2013 the future looks much brighter. Who is to say only a man should ever sing Puccini\u2019s Nessun Dorma? If a female singer\u2019s vocal range dips with motherhood or age, she can simply switch to a lower voice, such as tenor. And, says Ash Khandekar, editor of the magazine Opera Now, switching categories across gender divides is becoming more acceptable. Women with lower \u2013 mezzo-soprano or contralto \u2013 voices have always been cast in the cross-gender \u201cbreeches\u201d roles of the popular opera repertoire, parts such as Cherubino in Mozart\u2019s The Marriage of Figaro or Octavian in Richard Strauss\u2019s Der Rosenkavalier. But now female singers in professional companies, as well as in amateur operatic societies and choirs, are taking advantage of the end of traditional boundaries to call for women to have the opportunity of lengthening their performing careers. \u201cIt would be wonderful to see a relaxing of the rules,\u201d said Lucy Crowe, a soubrette soprano (traditionally with a light, bright voice), this weekend, as she rehearsed for this month\u2019s new English National Opera production of Figaro. \u201cCertainly having children has made a huge difference to me vocally.\u201d Although Crowe, 39, is unlikely ever to find her voice goes low enough for tenor parts, she is now graduating for the first time to roles such as the more powerful soprano Countess Rosina. \u201cMy voice was always quite light, but having children has certainly changed it and made it stronger,\u201d she said. \u201cI find it incredibly exciting that I can now sing a wider range of repertoire. I still do Handel and Purcell, but I can sing more of the dramatic repertoire as well. I am loving the journey.\u201d The practice of switching roles across gender divides was first seen in church and amateur choirs, where there is frequently a dearth of male tenors. In the US, writer and amateur singer Roberta Hershenson \u201ccame out\u201d several years ago as a woman who enjoys singing tenor roles: \u201cThere are at least 10 female tenors in the 200-member chorus I belong to, and most sing as well as the men,\u201d she wrote in the New York Times. \u201cBallast is why some conductors -- although by no means all -- admit women into their tenor sections. It helps when the men don\u2019t show up.\u201d Meanwhile, the Glyndebourne Academy in Sussex has just helped train the rapidly changing voice of a talented trans singer, Holden Madagame, a 27-year-old Native American. The academy, which seeks out voices that have had difficult routes to the stage, developed Madagame\u2019s new vocal register, which moved from mezzo-soprano to the tenor range, as he moved away from his female birth designation. \u201cMy voice has settled more and more with every month and year \u2013 and I know it\u2019s simply that the voice needs time to stretch and acclimate itself to my new body and new vocal folds,\u201d he said last autumn.So, just as Michelle Fairley is currently playing the treacherous Roman senator Cassius in Julius Caesar at London\u2019s Bridge Theatre and Tamsin Greig won acclaim for playing the conventionally male comic role of Malvolio in Twelfth Night at the National Theatre last year, so female singers with dark notes to their voices are asking to be considered one day for lead roles such as Rodolfo in La Boh\u00e8me, or Alfredo in La Traviata. Like Crowe, women singers are beginning to welcome alterations to their vocal range that can come with pregnancy, or as a natural part of the ageing process. Soprano Rhian Lois \u2013 who, as the maid Susanna, will join Crowe on stage to perform Sull\u2019aria, the Figaro duet that features in the film The Shawshank Redemption \u2013 also experienced voice changes during and after her recent pregnancy. \u201cYou really do need to let the change happen. Allow it. And it is great if that is more acceptable now,\u201d said Lois, 31. \u201cEvery singer is different. When I was a teenager I actually sang quite low, but then I became a soprano, and since I had a baby last year my voice is actually both higher and stronger. It may even be partly a question of stamina.\u201d Opera voices are traditionally classified on the Fach system. A contralto\u2019s vocal range is almost identical to that of a countertenor, while a woman who sings lower still might be called contralto profundo, equivalent to a male tenor, or even contralto basso, equivalent to a baritone, but all these distinctions are full of variation. \u201cIt would be interesting to know how much vocal change is down to hormones or physical change, and how much is psychological,\u201d said Crowe. \u201cThere is a greater confidence and loss of inhibitions that can come with becoming a mother, after all \u2013 and with ageing, too.\u201d \u2022This article was amended on 5 March to correct spellings of two opera roles: Countess Rosina, and Rodolfo."
"4||Ministers shelve pledge on women\u2019s safetyThe government has been accused of failing women who have been subjected to sexual, psychological and violent abuse after it emerged that a clutch of new laws and codes to protect them have been shelved. Among the proposed measures were laws to stop rape victims from being cross-examined in court about their previous sexual history, and tougher action on domestic violence. Both have now been sidelined. \u201cWhile the government dithers and makes excuses, women are being abused by repeat offenders who should be on a register, victims are being cross-examined in court by their own stalkers, and rape victims are facing the torment of their own sexual history being used as evidence against their credibility,\u201d said Liz Saville Roberts, a Plaid Cymru MP and the party\u2019s justice spokesperson. \u201cThe government needs to remember its priorities and bring forward its delayed legislation as a matter of urgency.\u201d In January 2017 the home secretary, Amber Rudd, pledged that the government would hold a 12-month consultation on a victims\u2019 bill of rights. The initiative, giving victims new legal rights, including the right to be consulted on the conditions of their assailant\u2019s release, was a Conservative manifesto commitment last year. But 13 months later, the consultation has not even begun. Lady Brinton, president of the Liberal Democrats, said that since Rudd made the promise the strategy had been subject to repeated delays. \u201cThey are not serious about doing this,\u201d Brinton said. The Ministry of Justice has, since July 2017, been promising a courts bill, which it said would include clauses tabled by opposition parties. The bill would bar convicted offenders from cross-examining their victims in person in the family and civil courts. Liz Truss, the former secretary of state for justice, also promised last April to introduce amendments limiting cross-examination of rape victims on their past sexual history and their appearance at the time of their ordeal. However, the bill, originally due to be introduced before the last general election, has yet to appear. The Tory 2017 manifesto outlined further plans for a new domestic violence bill. But Theresa May confirmed in parliament last month that the government was to consult on the matter before bringing forward legislation, an announcement that dismayed charities supporting vulnerable women. \u201cAction is needed urgently to protect victims of domestic violence and serious crime,\u201d said Harry Fletcher, an expert on victims\u2019 rights. \u201cThe government promised action last year but has not moved forward. For as long as this continues, victims will suffer abuse and distress will escalate.\u201d Ministers have been accused of using Brexit as an excuse for the failure to bring in the legislation. But Saville Roberts said: \u201cThe government chooses to bring forward bills about smart meters and space technology, while gender-based violence legislation is postponed time and again. When will the government stop procrastinating and start delivering on its duty to improve women\u2019s lives?\u201d A Home Office spokesman said it was committed to introducing a domestic violence bill in this parliamentary session and it was only right that a consultation process should precede it. He said a courts bill would be introduced as soon as parliamentary time allowed and that the department was committed to publishing a victims strategy this year. \u201cWe are also providing increased dedicated funding of \u00a3100m to support victims of violence against women and girls,\u201d he added."
"14||Revealed: Carillion lenders alerted to concerns months before collapseDirectors of the collapsed government contractor Carillion masked its financial ill-health with aggressive accounting, according to a secret report written last year for banks that were considering lending the company more money to survive. MPs published the report on Sunday as part of a continuing inquiry into the collapse of a company that provided a host of vital public services, including catering in schools, prison maintenance and construction of new NHS hospitals. Frank Field, chair of the Commons work and pensions committee, said the document was evidence of \u201cgross failings of corporate governance and accounting\u201d at Carillion. The lenders \u2013 RBS, Barclays, HSBC, Santander and Lloyds \u2013 commissioned the business advisory group FTI Consulting to analyse Carillion\u2019s finances last September after agreeing to lend it \u00a3140m. A draft version of the report detailed a litany of concerns about the finances of a business that hoped to secure another \u00a3360m from the five banks in order to revive its fortunes. FTI warned that Carillion was facing a financial crisis after suffering major losses on key projects in the UK, Canada and the Middle East, accusing it of \u201coverstatement\u201d of profits on the contracts. Less than four months later, Carillion collapsed into liquidation, a process that has so far cost taxpayers \u00a350m, triggered 1,400 redundancies and threatened the survival of thousands of firms in the company\u2019s supply chain. The Pension Protection Fund, which uses a levy on healthy businesses to rescue the retirement schemes of stricken companies, is expected to pick up its largest-ever liability of \u00a3900m, with some of the 28,500 scheme members facing cuts to retirement payouts. FTI\u2019s report highlighted accounting practices designed to \u201cenhance the reported profitability and net debt position\u201d of Carillion, rather than dealing with its underlying practices. These included deferring payments, bringing forward receipts from contracts and accepting short-term loans from joint ventures it was involved in. \u201cThe group has been poorly managed for a considerable period during which time significant underperformance and contract issues have been masked by aggressive accounting,\u201d FTI said. It accused the company of accepting large contracts too quickly and on \u201cinappropriate\u201d terms, in order to secure upfront payments and report large contract wins. And it said Carillion compensated for its failure to convert its reported profits into genuine cash by racking up ever higher debts. When confronted with FTI\u2019s findings, the company\u2019s management said they believed the assessment was too harsh, according to the report. But FTI insisted its report was balanced and did not even represent a \u201cworst case\u201d scenario, adding that lending Carillion any more money would be \u201cextremely high risk\u201d. Field, who is leading a joint inquiry with the business committee chaired by Rachel Reeves, said the report provided further evidence of poor management at Carillion. \u201cThere are many losers from the Carillion calamity: employees, pensioners, suppliers and the well-run businesses that pay the PPF levy. Many of those face an anxious wait to see what the consequences of the gross failings of corporate governance and accounting will be for them, their businesses and their families.\u201d Details of mounting concern in 2017 about Carillion\u2019s finances follow reports that investors were \u201crunning for the hills\u201d long before the company\u2019s collapse. Further evidence of the scale of its problems is likely to ramp up pressure on the government over its monitoring of a company that had issued a huge profits warning in July last year. The government continued to award it major public works, including a schools building contract in November 2017. The inquiry is set to take evidence from former investors in Carillion on Wednesday, while the business minister, Greg Clark, and the work and pensions minister, Esther McVey, will be called to a hearing on 21 March."
"24||Clubbing\u2019s new generation want good, clean fun, not hedonismAt the Pxssy Palace party in Mick\u2019s Garage, the music is banging, the outfits are flamboyant and the vibe is fun. On the wall hangs a bold manifesto: \u201cBody shaming, slut shaming, racism, ableism, ageism, tranphobia, homophobia, xenophobia and fatphobia are not tolerated,\u201d it says. \u201cPlease do not assume anyone\u2019s gender \u2013 if in doubt, feel free to ask.\u201d Signs like this one \u2013 in Mick\u2019s in Hackney, east London \u2013 are increasingly common. Whereas it was once cool to be purely hedonistic, now, with more than a quarter of 16-24-year-olds deciding not to drink and political parties, gender-neutral toilets and free cabs home for transgender people of colour becoming widespread, clubland is being cleaned up as millennials look for safe experiences. Music festivals are going in the same direction \u2013 45 international events, including Worldwide and Kendal Calling, have pledged a 50/50 gender split in their lineups. \u201cWhen young people nowadays go clubbing they like clean, unthreatening places,\u201d said Tom King, co-founder of the record label No Pain in Pop, who thinks that the politics does not take away from the fun. \u201cDrug testing and mixed toilets are pretty widespread and everything is quite sanitised. There\u2019s definitely been a big, big change.\u201d So, is the blissed-out rave a thing of the past? Perhaps, says Alice Favre, director and event manager of LWE, which works with London venue Printworks and festivals such as Junction 2. She says dance music culture is changing with the times. Clubbing has become less of a weekly habit because of the expense. Instead, people plan months in advance. \u201cPeople are choosing their experience more carefully and looking for places that fit their ideology,\u201d she said. \u201cThere is a growing expectation for better behaviour in clubbing culture ... with ravers reporting attendees who are not behaving as they are expected to.\u201d As a result [LWE\u2019s] parties have recently implemented a strict anti-harassment policy, including large warning posters at all events. \u201cInstances of harassment are now easily reported, and perpetrators get ejected,\u201d she said. Policies such as this are becoming the norm. \u201cYou can no longer put together a club night with minimal effort and consideration, turning a blind eye when problems arise,\u201d said Gabriel Szatan, 26, presenter and programmer at Boiler Room TV. \u201cI understand not every venue can afford to have unisex loos and provide additional care for transgender ravers, but given that most promoters, DJs and venue owners are still predominantly white men, it\u2019s critical for people to check their own assumptions when putting on a night.\u201d One explanation is to be found in the age of the promoters, many of whom are in their 20s. There have always been politicised young people, but now they are the ones booking festivals. Room for Rebellion is a sister group of the London-Irish Abortion Rights Campaign, which runs synchronised events in London, Dublin and Belfast. Its \u201cpolitical parties\u201d raise money as well as awareness. \u201cWe\u2019ve created a space which allows stories to be told, free from stigma, on the dancefloor,\u201d said co-founder Isis O\u2019Regan, 25. She says millennials like her want a clubbing experience that can be carefree, as well as supportive, and nights like these create communities that might not exist elsewhere. With dance music more prominent on the airwaves now than at any time in the past decade, promoters are conscious that attending club nights is no longer a left-field endeavour and that they need to be accessible to everyone. Working with Manchester People First, a charity for adults with a learning disability, the promoter Meat Free runs nights for dance music fans whose disabilities preclude them from attending mainstream events. They feature less intense lighting, a lower volume of music and a lower capacity. \u201cWe play house and disco throughout, and just lay off the techno so it doesn\u2019t get too intense,\u201d says promoter Alice Woods, 32. \u201cWe want it to be fun, open and welcoming.\u201d Some say the relationship between clubbing and activism has been building for a few years and is part of a broader trend. Social consciousness is a key part of creativity in 2018, and DJs such as The Black Madonna and Midland, who are outspoken on issues such as gender, race and sexuality, have helped make it mainstream to be right on. \u201cThis rubs off on other DJs too,\u201d said one DJ, who preferred not to be named. \u201cRaving is still very much about getting on it, but this is part of a much broader \u2018woke\u2019 [being aware of social issues] trend and it\u2019s just playing out in dance music. This is a reaction to Europe lurching to the right, our government and Brexit, and having Trump in the White House.\u201d Others think this is nothing new. Bill Brewster, co-author of Last Night a DJ Saved My Life, a history of disc jockeys, says there\u2019s always been activism in dance music. \u201cAcid house was anti-Thatcher,\u201d he said. \u201cWhen organising an illegal after-party, people felt like they were building an alternative society.\u201d He thinks there will always be a commercial side to clubbing, as well as the anti-authoritarian stance. But is this new inclusivity excluding certain people? \u201cPotentially,\u201d said King. \u201cBut I\u2019d say it\u2019s almost all positive. It has certainly been cleaned up and some of the bad stuff has been rooted out. The general quality of clubbing has improved.\u201d"
"12||Xi\u2019s wretched turn to despotism is born of frailty. Dictatorship will begin to crumbleIt was breathtaking even if inevitable. China has abandoned its constraints on one-party rule. In 1980 Deng Xiaoping, the author of the Chinese miracle, wrote into China\u2019s constitution 10-year term limits for its presidents and committed the country to the rule of law. Certainly China would continue as a one-party state, but it would be one that operated within constitutional bounds. Never again would the country suffer the depredations of a despot like Mao. Deng even held out the possibility that by 2030 China might become a democracy with a properly independent judiciary. No more. Last Sunday the People\u2019s Daily announced that President Xi would be carrying on in office indefinitely. Equally ominously, the constitutional commitment to the rule of law \u2013 in any case more observed in the breach \u2013 was to be transformed into a commitment to \u201cwielding the law to rule\u201d. No prizes for guessing who would wield that law. A newly drafted first clause in the constitution, in line with the \u201cthoughts of Xi Jinping\u201d, declares that the \u201cleadership of the Chinese Communist party is the most essential feature of socialism with Chinese characteristics\u201d. So, alongside his indefinite general secretaryship of the Communist party and indefinite term as leader of China\u2019s armed forces, Xi is now president of China for life, with no requirement to uphold an impartial system of justice, however qualified in reality. It is a move from autocracy to despotism. Xi is to become the contemporary emperor of China, but unlike previous emperors he will define and use the law to support his regime rather than attempt to offer an impartial system of justice. You cannot run a continent of 1.3 billion people on the basis of structural injustice. Thus China\u2019s future is foretold. Yes, the immediate prospect is not great, but dictatorships do not last for ever. Like imperial dynasties before it, imperial communism will suffer a succession of revolts from below that will be met by increasing repression until finally the system blows up. Censorship, already intense in China, was ratcheted up another notch with last week\u2019s temporary ban on the letter N: bloggers could no longer refer to Xi serving n terms. Yet Xi will age, like Robert Mugabe and other \u201cstrong men\u201d, and will be terrified of giving up power because of what his enemies will do once he no longer holds the reins. Within China the moves are portrayed as a sign of strength. The truth is the opposite \u2013 and reveals with savage starkness the impossible dilemmas facing the Chinese leadership. Xi, on taking power five years ago, had no option but to launch a series of highly public anticorruption drives. The party\u2019s legitimacy was falling to new lows as its leaders shamelessly accumulated vast wealth through back-handers and bribes. But necessarily Xi\u2019s anticorruption drives could not attack his own power base: they could only be political in character \u2013 arriving at the point today where he and his circle cannot countenance an orderly transfer of power in 2022 for fear they will be rounded on in turn. The party can only go on, hoping that economic growth, growing international power and ruthless nationalism will be sufficient to hold off its growing internal critics. Yet how is that growth to be achieved? It will not be through benevolent trade deals with a second-order economy like Britain. The \u201cMade in China 2025\u201d strategy sets out to establish world leadership in key advanced industrial sectors, backed by protection of its own markets. So much for the World Trade Organization and its rules. With their backs against the wall China\u2019s leaders will double down, so that China\u2019s economy will become even more dominated by the party, strengthening its apparatus of control. One little-noticed dimension of the Belt and Road initiative, investing $1 trillion overseas, is that China is insisting that all trade disputes be arbitrated by Chinese courts. Jacob Rees-Mogg and Boris Johnson complain of being vassals to the European court, constructed on impeccable principles of independent jurisprudence which Britain shares. Try winning a dispute in China\u2019s courts under despot Xi without the power of the EU behind you. China\u2019s economic rise has captivated the world \u2013 it is now the No 1 global exporter. But it was driven by an astute if unstable mix of qualified one-party rule, state guidance and fierce competitive capitalism. Deng and the Shanghai \u201cliberals\u201d wanted to engineer a rule-of-law society around market principles in which the Communist party had a primary but not overwhelming rule. After a fashion it worked. But now it is time for the west to reappraise its relationship with China. For another aspect of Xi\u2019s thought is that China offers a \u201cnew option\u201d as an economic and social model based on Chinese \u201cwisdom\u201d. Thus China sees itself becoming not only the dominant power in Asia, to which everyone pays tribute, but one that offers wisdom to which everyone must genuflect. Xi is a canny reader of power: only the EU and the US have the hard and soft power to challenge China\u2019s ambitions and act as an exemplar of why justice matters. The reason representative democracy trumps referendums as a form of democratic governance is that, as events change, representatives can change course instead of being held to a decision made in very different circumstances. 2018 is a different world to 2016, which the front benches of both our major parties have yet to acknowledge. Instead of kowtowing to China in the quest for non-existent trade deals, Britain should be strengthening its commitment to the EU as China throws everything behind despotism. It is an argument Britain deserves to hear \u2013 and act on. \u2022 Will Hutton is an Observer columnist"
