"0||Tim Cahill cagey on fitness as Socceroos' final World Cup push gets under wayAustralia\u2019s logistically complex and final World Cup qualifying mission is under way, carrying the Socceroos, including Tim Cahill, to Honduras. But despite boarding the plane to central America, Cahill offered no promise that he would be fit enough to play the fourth-placed team from Concacaf, as he recovers from a rolled ankle sustained on club duty with Melbourne City. Sporting a strapped and iced ankle at Melbourne airport, he said he had an \u201coutside chance\u201d of playing. \u201cI\u2019m definitely not going to promise anything,\u201d he said. \u201cWe\u2019re making a calculated decision and if it works, it\u2019s fantastic.\u201d The striker said two of his own independent physios had been working on his ankle for the past 48 hours to help him recover. Ange Postecoglou\u2019s squad have completed club duties in 15 countries across the weekend, and are heading to Honduras for Friday\u2019s (Saturday AEDT) away leg in the intercontinental playoff. Collectively, the Socceroos will travel around 200,000 kilometres from their club homes to Honduras. It might seem like a disadvantage when the majority of the Honduras squad are based at home, but Australian officials hope their meticulous planning can give them an edge. The longest route is from Melbourne to San Pedro Sula and has already been undertaken by Postecoglou and James Troisi on Sunday and Cahill on Monday, after his travel was delayed by a day to aid his recovery. The shortest \u2013 by Mitch Langerak, based with Levante in the Spanish city of Valencia \u2013 still took the best part of a day\u2019s travel. But the Socceroos are used to it. Their journey to the World Cup has already taken in 20 games, with away days in Saudi Arabia, Iran, the UAE, Jordan, Tajikistan, Bangladesh, Kyrgyzstan, Thailand, Malaysia and Japan. No country will have had to face a longer or more arduous route to Russia. But Mark Milligan, who is suspended for the first leg like Mathew Leckie and won\u2019t travel to Honduras, has no doubt their Asian experiences would galvanise the team. \u201cThe boys have a lot of travel ahead of them but that\u2019s one thing we\u2019re very good at,\u201d he said. \u201cThe medical staff prepare us very well to deal with that. The way that we prepare for flights and get ready; the recovery when we get in. We do it a lot and our mentality towards it is never negative. We know we have to and we get on with it. \u201cIf you\u2019re not used to travelling across the world all the time it can play on your mind and it can make things tough. We accept it. We know we\u2019re getting looked after from the medical staff and we trust in what they\u2019re telling us. That helps the mental side. The travel will be a definite advantage for us.\u201d Milligan will take the 90-minute flight from Melbourne to Sydney to link up with the squad next week for the second leg. But he said that didn\u2019t mean that he, Leckie and Robbie Kruse, who will also miss the first leg because of an injured knee, would be walk-up starters at ANZ Stadium. \u201cWe never know who\u2019s going to be playing,\u201d Milligan said."
"1||New England byelection unique chance to leverage power, independent saysAn independent from the north of New England has said voters need to return someone other than a National to Canberra to extract maximum leverage in a byelection determining whether the Turnbull government retains a working majority in the lower house. Pete Mailler, a 46-year-old cattle and grain producer from Boggabilla, has confirmed he will contest the New England byelection on 2 December, representing the micro-party he has established, CountryMinded. Mailler said he was running because it was important the voters in New England be given alternatives, and that the looming election was a genuine contest rather than a cakewalk for the National party. He said if he won, he would continue to support the Coalition government in Canberra, but he argued there was a \u201cunique opportunity to politically leverage the government\u2019s need for confidence and supply to maintain their hold on power\u201d. \u201cThe Coalition will be motivated to retain office for the maximum possible term,\u201d Mailler said. \u201cThey must deal with whoever holds the seat of New England on behalf of the electorate, unless that person is already a member of the Coalition.\u201d \u201cIn other words, Barnaby Joyce can\u2019t leverage the political power on offer to the electorate of New England, to get a better deal from this government from this election. \u201cThis election is a pivotal moment in the future of New England and for rural and regional Australia generally. \u201cThis election is an opportunity to show that the New England electorate can\u2019t be taken for granted by any political party and is an opportunity to secure better political outcomes for our rural and regional communities.\u201d Mailler said he understood that voters in New England had some sympathy for Joyce given his disqualification by the high court, but people should think about their capacity \u201cto influence politics positively for their electorate and the nation because this election affects the Coalition\u2019s one-seat majority\u201d. Nominations for the byelection close on Thursday. As well as Mailler, Joyce will face off against Labor\u2019s David Ewings, from Scone in the southern part of the electorate, and the Armidale-based independent Rob Taber, who has run at the past two elections. Taber, a local businessman, has told Guardian Australia he would not enter any minority government agreement with the Coalition, but deal with things issue by issue. \u201cI would not support either side. I would be right down the middle,\u201d Taber said last week. \u201cThey might come to me and say it all hinges on you, you\u2019ve got the balance of power, and my feel on that is they will come to me, and I will say it\u2019s not my problem. \u201cWhy are you going to make it my problem? You go away and sort it out.\u201d"
"2||England\u2019s live scrum training with Wales threatens to pack a punchEngland and Wales are not to start their autumn international campaigns until Saturday but the week\u2019s spiciest contest may well unfold in Bristol on Monday morning. A live scrummaging session involving both countries\u2019 packs certainly has all the necessary ingredients, with the England head coach, Eddie Jones, saying the Anglo-Welsh showdown will shape his front-row Test selection. Perhaps sensibly, the exercise is being held behind closed doors given the precedent set by other sides in similar circumstances. As recently as this summer, a joint pre-season session involving Bath and Newport Gwent Dragons erupted when Tom Dunn, an England squad member, appeared to head butt his opposite number Rhys Buckley. The footage of both sets of forwards subsequently trading blows has been widely shared online. With the England captain, Dylan Hartley, also directly up against Ken Owens, among those picked ahead of him for the British and Irish Lions tour last summer, and the Exeter prop Harry Williams predicting things \u201ccould easily kick off\u201d, it is fortunate that the world\u2019s leading referee, Nigel Owens, will also be on hand. There are many within the England set-up, nevertheless, who will be very surprised if the session passes off without a murmur. Among them is Jason Ryles, the Australian rugby league coach hired by Jones to run an eye over England\u2019s defensive technique. Ryles, a former Kangaroos forward who played 270 NRL games, is no stranger to a spot of biff in the 13-man code and recalls a joint session involving his former club Melbourne Storm and the Canterbury Bulldogs which degenerated very quickly. \u201cA couple of years ago the Storm trained against the Bulldogs and it didn\u2019t work,\u201d Ryles said. \u201cIt was a good concept which started out at two-handed touch then went to bumping shoulders then suddenly it was all on. It didn\u2019t really work. England and Wales are both looking to improve their scrummaging but with the Bulldogs it was just that little bit too competitive to say the least.\u201d Williams, whose Exeter team-mate Tomas Francis will also be involved, is similarly not expecting a mellow, uneventful morning. \u201cIt\u2019s going to be full on, isn\u2019t it? They\u2019re a rival nation. When the time comes, you\u2019ve just got to rip into it as hard as you can. It could easily kick off. We should have armed policemen as we\u2019re walking out. Chains and stuff. Let\u2019s really build it up: The Battle of Bristol. Tom Francis sent me an article about it last week, saying: \u2018See you in Bristol\u2019. You get used to training against your team-mates and you rarely go full on. But if you\u2019re against a different team or nation there\u2019s a lot of added intensity.\u201d The history of Wales-England sporting rivalry is not exactly bereft of needle, although the importance of absolute discipline in the professional era has curtailed many of rugby\u2019s worst excesses. Jones is more focused on the immediate future, with this weekend\u2019s opponents Argentina also occupying the same pool at the 2019 Rugby World Cup, and believes the potential benefits of a full-on session with the Welsh outweighs any other concerns. \u201cWe want to be the best scrum in the world,\u201d Jones stressed. \u201cWe just feel there\u2019s a certain amount of familiarity to scrummaging against each other. We need our scrummaging to go to another level so we want to be challenged in that area. Wales have a good scrum and that will bring something different to our scrummaging.\u201d With Williams pushing Dan Cole for the starting tight-head role and the combustible up-and-coming Leicester loose-head Ellis Genge also among those involved, Jones hopes the session will provide him with some clear pointers as he looks to identify his preferred front-row to face the Pumas. \u201cIt\u2019s a training session but we want them to be 100%, absolutely 100%,\u201d said Jones, once a spiky hooker himself for the Randwick club in Sydney. \u201cIt\u2019s a great chance for young guys like Harry and Ellis to show what they\u2019ve worked on for their clubs.\u201d On this occasion the 24-year-old Dunn, still uncapped but a player whose attitude Jones clearly likes, will remain in Bagshot for separate training. Hartley and Jamie George may be England\u2019s two main hookers but Dunn, in the absence of the injured Luke Cowan-Dickie and Tommy Taylor, could feature at some stage this autumn. \u201cTom Dunn is doing exceptionally,\u201d Jones said. \u201cHe is probably one of the most driven guys in the squad. No flair, just hard, nuggety, real old-fashioned. He looks old fashioned and he plays and trains like that. He is pushing the other two guys really hard.\u201d England\u2019s backs, probably to their relief, will be left behind in Bagshot to prepare for the Argentina game in relative peace, along with Elliot Daly who has been included despite his recent knee injury. Jones is not due to confirm his starting XV until Thursday, with many of this summer\u2019s Test Lions in New Zealand unlikely to feature in all three autumn internationals."
"0||David Luiz faces battle to regain his Chelsea place, warns Antonio ConteAntonio Conte has warned David Luiz he faces a battle to regain his place in the first team after dropping the centre-half for the champions\u2019 critical victory over Manchester United, a win that left the visitors eight points adrift of the top. \u00c1lvaro Morata\u2019s second-half header proved the decisive moment at Stamford Bridge but David Luiz, such a key player in Chelsea\u2019s Premier League title triumph last season after rejoining from Paris Saint-Germain, watched the game from behind the home dugout with Conte claiming his omission was born of shoddy recent form. The Brazilian\u2019s replacement, the Danish youngster Andreas Christensen, performed impressively as Chelsea moved to within a point of United, albeit still nine from Manchester City at the top. The 17-year-old midfielder Ethan Ampadu, who has yet to feature in the top flight, had been included instead among the substitutes. Asked afterwards whether David Luiz had a future at the club, Conte said: \u201cI don\u2019t know. He has to work really hard, otherwise they are on the bench or in the stand.\u201d The Italian was subsequently asked to clarify those comments, and added: \u201cIt\u2019s very simple, no? Very simple. The coach has to make the best decision for the team and tonight the best decision for the team was to play with Christensen and to have, on the bench, [Ethan] Ampadu. Another young player. A really good player for the present and the future. \u201cMaybe in the future I can decide a different way or continue in this way. That\u2019s normal. I must take the best decision for the club, not for a single player. It\u2019s only a tactical decision. It\u2019s normal. This can happen to every one of my players, if I see they are not in good form. It\u2019s normal. I repeat: I have to put my face to every situation and then sometimes to make important decisions. Today I did this and I think Christensen played a massive game. I was very happy for this.\u201d David Luiz\u2019s omission came only a few weeks after Conte had described him as his best defender at the club. \u201cBut it can change, it can change,\u201d he said, with the Brazilian having been omitted from the final training session before United\u2019s visit. He had clashed with Conte over his early substitution during the Champions League home game with Roma last month. The Brazilian must now prove he warrants inclusion in the side that travels to West Bromwich Albion after the international break by impressing in training over the next fortnight. The Italian praised his team for playing \u201cwith great energy, with great passion, with great enthusiasm\u201d to record a third successive Premier League win and erase some of the painful memories of the midweek capitulation in Rome. There was disappointment for his opposite number, Jos\u00e9 Mourinho, on his latest fruitless return to Stamford Bridge, with the Portuguese left to contemplate falling further behind in the title race. . \u201cWe are worried [about the gap] but there are 18 teams more worried than us because we are second,\u201d he said. \u201cEight points, in the Premier League, is not the same as eight points in the Portuguese league, La Liga, the Bundesliga. Here, there\u2019s still a lot to play [for]. I hope, I feel, I think, I wish that in the busy period of late November, December, beginning of January, I think probably we are going to be at our maximum strength with Paul Pogba, Marcos Rojo and Zlatan Ibrahimovic back. So, probably, we can be on a high.\u201d The United manager had waited to shake hands with Conte near the mouth of the tunnel after the match, only for the Italian to celebrate instead on the pitch with his victorious players. \u201cYou want me to go and chase him in the middle of the pitch?\u201d added Mourinho. \u201cI was there. I shook hands with the people who were there. I think one of them was his brother, the assistant, so I feel that by shaking the hands of his brother and the other assistants that I did my duty. I cannot go and run to chase him.\u201d"
"3||Terrawatch: the rivers taking plastic to the oceansEvery minute one rubbish lorry\u2019s-worth of plastic is dumped into the sea. If we continue at this rate, some estimate that our oceans will contain more plastic than fish by 2050. So where does all the plastic come from? New research reveals that just 10 river systems transport more than 90% of the global input of plastic into to the world\u2019s oceans. Rivers are the arteries of our planet. From tiny tumbling streams to vast sluggish deltas, rivers are the link between the atmosphere, land and oceans. Since time immemorial people have clustered near rivers, taking advantage of the fresh water, fertile land, ready-made transport links and plentiful fish. And of course rivers are also excellent conveyor belts for whisking rubbish away. By analysing how much plastic is carried by different rivers all over the world, and assessing the amount of littering in areas surrounding rivers, Christian Schmidt, of the Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research in Germany, and his colleagues have shown that large river systems act as super-highways in transporting plastic to the sea. Their research, published in the journal Environmental Science and Technology, shows that 10 river systems, located in heavily populated regions where littering is common, carry more than 90% of the plastic that ends up in the oceans. Two are in Africa (the Nile and the Niger) while the other eight are in Asia (the Ganges, Indus, Yellow, Yangtze, Haihe, Pearl, Mekong and Amur). \u201cHalving the plastic input from the catchment areas of these rivers would already be a major success,\u201d says Schmidt in a press statement. Next the researchers want to investigate the speed at which plastic travels from land to sea. \u2022 This article was amended on 1 February 2018. An earlier version said research revealed that more than 90% of plastic waste is transported to the world\u2019s oceans by 10 river systems. That figure is for the global input of plastic into the world\u2019s oceans, not 90% of all plastic waste."
"0||Manchester City 3-1 Arsenal: five talking points from Sunday\u2019s league encounter1) Arsenal offer a glimmer of hope for the rest \u201cWe\u2019ve got Guardiola\u201d sang the delirious home support and here was another key win overseen by the Catalan. Yet despite this, Alexandre Lacazette\u2019s second half consolation highlighted a weak spot that City\u2019s competitors are sure to study. When Liverpool were trounced 5-0 in early September City had been split open along Nicolas Otamendi\u2019s left-hand channel before Sadio Man\u00e9\u2019s 37th-minute sending off changed the contest. In this match a similar vulnerability came when Otamendi was given scant support by an awol Fabian Delph, the left-back, and so Lacazette could stroke beyond the excellent Ederson Moraes. City are a formidable force but the job of their fellow championship contenders is to try and pick them apart: the issue, of course, is how the blue wave can be relentless, as Gabriel Jesus\u2019s finish following Lacazette\u2019s proved. 2) Ederson impresses yet again for City The goalkeeper\u2019s excellent contribution to City\u2019s start is illustrated by the fact that he has attracted close to zero attention so far. Following Claudio Bravo\u2019s calamitous time last season, this shows how reliable the Brazilian has been. The Chilean had been recruited, in part, for his work with his feet, but that actually proved to be an achilles heel and Ederson has been the polar opposite, as was shown when he was hurried by an Arsenal press and calmly stroked the ball over to John Stones. When required to do some actual goal-minding for his side, the 24-year-old was as sharp as his outfield colleagues: for instance, when Alexis S\u00e1nchez popped Mesut \u00d6zil into a good position, out raced Ederson to collect. Better still was a save from Aaron Ramsey at the end of the first half that kept his team ahead, with the No1 also blameless regarding Arsenal\u2019s goal. 3) Delph enjoying life as a born-again full-back The 27-year-old who performed two U-turns before finally joining City from Aston Villa in summer 2015 is enjoying a run at left-back or left wing-back due to Benjamin Mendy\u2019s serious knee injury. He is the latest example of Guardiola\u2019s love of packing his teams with as many midfielders as possible. Today he was the left-back in a four, and his scheming abilities were shown when spraying one diagonal ball out from defence to initiate an attack. As is Guardiola\u2019s wont, too, he stepped forward from defence into Arsenal territory when possible to squeeze space. Mendy may not be able to return until April, meaning Delph has the prospect of a near season-long stay in the side. To do so, though, he will have to improve the awry positioning that allowed Lacazette to be one-on-one with Otamendi for his goal. Delph took a late knock but the hope is that it was not serious. 4) Arsenal\u2019s five at the back were well under par Ars\u00e8ne Wenger may have questioned Michael Oliver\u2019s refereeing and whether Raheem Sterling dived, but the truth was that his back five of Sead Kolasinac, Nacho Monreal, Francis Coquelin, Laurent Koscielny and Hector Beller\u00edn were close to calamitous. City\u2019s opener came when Kevin De Bruyne swapped passes with Fernandinho, waltzed forward as Koscielny watched space, then beat Petr Cech: no wonder Wenger looked royally cheesed off. The Frenchman adores flowing football so he cannot have been any more impressed with how, when De Bruyne pressed Coquelin into an area near a corner flag, the No34 hoofed the ball straight out. Poorer still was Monreal\u2019s concession of the second-half penalty on Sterling from which Sergio Ag\u00fcero notched goal No179 for the club. Wenger believed this should not have been awarded but it seemed the correct decision. 5) Mesut \u00d6zil would be a fine January buy The 2014 World Cup-winner would surely grace a genuine title-contending team rather than a side that perennially fails to achieve that status. \u00d6zil\u2019s contract expires next summer and as a favourite of Jos\u00e9 Mourinho when he was in charge of Real Madrid, might Manchester United\u2019s manager consider a January window bid? In the opening moments the German drifted near to Ederson\u2019s goal to be Arsenal\u2019s furthest player forward. Later, he pulled a left-foot shot wide. Yet after the 29-year-old was next put in by Alexis S\u00e1nchez he drifted away to the periphery. During four years at the north London club \u00d6zil\u2019s figures are seven goals in 40 appearances in 2013-14; five in 32 in 2014-15; eight in 44 in 2015-16; 12 in 44 last term, and, so far, only one in nine this year. Those numbers could well rise if he played in a finer team."
"0||Leighton Baines steps up to crown epic Everton comeback against WatfordDavid Unsworth may not land the Everton manager\u2019s job he craves but he will never receive a better endorsement of his ability to generate spirit and fight in a team than what transpired on a truly remarkable evening at Goodison Park. The first win of his temporary reign came with passion, pandemonium, a 91st-minute penalty and a 100th-minute penalty miss. \u201cI need a lie down,\u201d said Unsworth after a breathless encounter in which Everton refused to do exactly that. Watford deservedly led 2-0 just after the hour and Goodison was stirring in revolt against an Everton team looking every inch the relegation candidate. The team, improved by Unsworth\u2019s substitutions, pulled them back from the brink. The indefatigable Oumar Niasse instigated the fightback, Dominic Calvert-Lewin levelled and Leighton Baines converted a high-stakes penalty in injury time, replacing Unsworth as Everton\u2019s all-time leading penalty scorer in the process. It did not end there. In the 10th of 12 minutes added on for significant injuries to Heurelho Gomes and Christian Kabasele, Watford won a penalty of their own when Jordan Pickford fouled Richarlison. Tom Cleverley, a former Everton midfielder, stepped up in the absence of the suspended Troy Deeney. Goodison had a collective seizure. Cleverley missed. It now falls to Farhad Moshiri, Everton\u2019s major shareholder, to appoint the club\u2019s next manager. Sam Allardyce, assisted by Craig Shakespeare, is being given serious consideration by the Everton hierarchy. Watford\u2019s Marco Silva is also of interest. At the last, and after three demoralising defeats, Unsworth promoted his claims too. \u201cIt is difficult to say what it will mean,\u201d said Everton\u2019s caretaker manager on the implications of victory on his job prospects. \u201cBut what we gave in the second half was what I\u2019d say was a real Everton performance, full of heart and character. That is how you should play.\u201d Unsworth has been the model of discretion on the subject of the imbalanced squad bequeathed to him by Ronald Koeman and the director of football, Steve Walsh, but his selections have damned several expensive signings and senior players. Morgan Schneiderlin joined the list of expensive absentees against Watford after his woeful season reached a new low with an unprofessional red card against Lyon. There was an improvement in Everton\u2019s pressing game during a flat first half but their lack of width and quality in the final third was again telling. Unsworth repeated the tried and mistrusted combination of Wayne Rooney and Gylfi Sigurdsson behind the hard-working Niasse. Both toiled yet again and were substituted to good effect. Watford did not recapture the form that scared Chelsea at Stamford Bridge and has produced three away wins this season, but were dangerous throughout. Richarlison should have opened the scoring shortly before half-time when released by the prominent Andre Gray but hit the side-netting having rounded the Everton goalkeeper. He made no mistake with his next opportunity. Only 30 seconds had elapsed in the second half when Silva\u2019s side exposed Everton\u2019s weakness against the counterattack. Michael Keane was second best in a challenge with Andr\u00e9 Carrillo and suddenly Watford had two men against only Jonjoe Kenny. Gray clipped his pass to Richarlison, who again rounded Pickford and converted from close range. A roller-coaster of a second half was under way. Sigurdsson should have levelled when Niasse picked him out unmarked in front of goal but, similarly to Baines in the first half, he shot too close to Heurelho Gomes and the visiting keeper saved comfortably. The keeper suffered a head injury when dealing with Rooney\u2019s cross from the rebound, colliding with Kabasele, and his departure contributed to Everton\u2019s recovery. But the home side were two goals in arrears when the comeback began. Christian Kabasele powered in a header from Kiko Femen\u00eda\u2019s corner to double Watford\u2019s advantage. Goodison erupted in anger but was soon given hope by Niasse, who capitalised on hesitation between Gomes\u2019 replacement, the debutant Orestis Karnezis, and Jos\u00e9 Holebas as they attempted to deal with Ademola Lookman\u2019s ball down the left. Niasse nipped in and his touch trickled over the line as Kabasele fouled him from behind. The introduction of Calvert-Lewin for Rooney paid swift dividends. Watford left the striker completely unmarked as Baines swept a corner to the back post and the England Under-21 forward punished the oversight with a close-range header. Another costly set-piece lapse for Silva\u2019s team. Goodison was now in tumult, particularly when Holebas gave Everton the chance to win the game and possibly turn their season by conceding a late penalty. Aaron Lennon, Unsworth\u2019s third substitution, flicked the ball over the left-back and was impeded when Holebas slipped in his path. \u201cA harsh decision,\u201d said a visibly enraged Silva, who refused to discuss the Everton links. After a lengthy wait, and with the weight of a relegation struggle on his shoulders, Baines fired the spot-kick beyond Karnezis\u2019 despairing dive. Cleverley failed to do likewise, leaving Unsworth to depart with a hug for each of his players and a kiss to the crowd."
"4||Corrections and clarifications\u2022 A piece about Pope Francis referred to the \u201cCongregation for the Defence of the Faith, or CDF\u201d. That should have been the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (The war against Pope Francis, 28 October, page 33). \u2022 An article (Meet your long lost relative: scientists find new species of orangutan, 3 November, page 7) was accompanied by images of the eight great ape species. Or so it should have been. One of them was a subspecies: the western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla). It should have been the western gorilla (Gorilla gorilla). \u2022 Homophone corner: \u201cLink\u2019s plans were intended to put a break on this growth\u201d (Shake-up could close at least 10,000 free cash machines, 2 November, page 4)."
"5||Tory whip steps down as more MPs are caught up in harassment scandalConservative MP Chris Pincher has \u201cvoluntarily stood down\u201d from the whips\u2019 office and referred himself to the party\u2019s complaints procedure and the police following an allegation about his behaviour, a Downing Street spokesman said. The move came after two other Conservative MPs, Dan Poulter and Daniel Kawczynski, were referred to the party\u2019s new internal party disciplinary system, it was announced on Sunday. It means that four MPs will now be investigated under the process, announced by Theresa May last week. Stephen Crabb, the former pensions secretary, was referred on Saturday after admitting he sent suggestive text messages to a teenager. Pincher, the MP for Tamworth was reported by the Mail on Sunday as making an unwanted pass at the former Olympic rower and Conservative activist Alex Story. The alleged incident reportedly took place with Pincher dressed in a bathrobe at his London home. Pincher was appointed as a government whip in June, after serving as an assistant whip since July 2016. Pincher reportedly said on Saturday evening: \u201cI do not recognise either the events or the interpretation placed on them by the Mail on Sunday. \u201cWhatever may or may not have happened or been said was obviously many years before I became an MP. If Mr Story has ever felt offended by anything I said, then I can only apologise to him.\u201d A No 10 spokesman said: \u201cFollowing a conversation with him, the chief whip has referred Daniel Poulter to the party\u2019s new disciplinary committee for further investigation.\u201d Separately, a Conservative party spokesman said: \u201cThe chief whip has referred Daniel Kawczynski to the party\u2019s new disciplinary committee for further investigation.\u201d The disciplinary system was announced on Friday by Theresa May in response to the wave of claims about alleged harassment and inappropriate behaviour in Westminster. Another Tory MP, Charlie Elphicke, has been suspended by the party following serious allegations that according to chief whip, Julian Smith, have been passed to the police. Two ministers, Damian Green and Mark Garnier, face inquiries by the Cabinet Office under yet another system. Allegations of inappropriate behaviour against them are being looked into on the basis of whether they breached the ministerial code. Downing Street did not say of what Poulter, the MP for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich since 2010, was accused. He reportedly denies any wrongdoing. However, another Tory MP, Andrew Bridgen, wrote in the Sunday Times that he had chosen to \u201ccall out the alleged inappropriate behaviour\u201d of Poulter. Bridgen said he had complained to Conservative whips in 2010. Bridgen, the MP for North West Leicestershire, said his complaint was \u201cmet with no interest\u201d from the whips and two years later Poulter was promoted to the post of junior health minister. Bridgen wrote: \u201cWhile I appreciate that speaking out about an MP in my own party will not make me particularly popular and could damage my own career prospects, I have chosen to do so in the hope that it will encourage others, especially those who have been victims of sexual harassment, to come forward.\u201d A spokesman for Poulter said he \u201cdenies all allegations of misconduct or inappropriate behaviour and will vigorously defend himself against any such claims\u201d. The investigation to Kawczynski follows claims by Channel 4 News that the MP for Shrewsbury and Atcham sought to pressure a female researcher of another Tory MP to go on a date with a wealthy friend, who had seen her in parliament. Eleanor Laing, the MP for whom the woman worked, has released a statement saying she was \u201cvery angry at this inappropriate behaviour and I strongly reprimanded my colleague in front of several witnesses\u201d. It is reported that Kawczynski does not deny he approached the woman but says he did nothing inappropriate. May announced the new Conservative code of conduct in a letter to the Speaker of the Commons, John Bercow, about her party\u2019s plans to tackle the issue. The code states that inquiries should be conducted by a panel of three or more people, at least one of whom should be independent of the Conservatives. The new code applies to MPs, peers, MEPs, members of the Scottish, Welsh and London assemblies, police and crime commissioners, elected mayors, councillors and party officials. It compels them to \u201ctake reasonable steps\u201d to ensure those who want to complain about harassment, bullying or discrimination are able to do so. There is an email address and phone number to which complaints can be made. Harassment is defined as \u201cany unwanted physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct that has the purpose or effect of violating a person\u2019s dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive situation or environment for them\u201d."
"0||Cesc F\u00e0bregas keeps calm amid the chaos to steer Chelsea towards a worthy winAnd then there was one. With just over an hour gone at Stamford Bridge and Manchester United trailing 1-0 thanks to \u00c1lvaro Morata\u2019s sublime second-half header, Jos\u00e9 Mourinho leapt up out of his seat for perhaps the 30th time, quilted grey anorak billowing behind him, and waved his arms in a gesture of trapped rage. Mourinho\u2019s exasperation was directed at Marouane Fellaini, who was standing too deep inside his own half to get a flick on to a David de Gea clearance. Fellaini rumbled a little mournfully into position. Two minutes later he was booked for trailing an elbow into Morata\u2019s face. In the final moments, as United roused for a late grandstand attack like a rusted trawler being hoisted from the ocean floor, Fellaini trapped an Eric Bailly punt on his chest, brought it down with a roll of the shoulders and punted a bobbling shot that Thibaut Courtois palmed away. It was United\u2019s second and last shot on target. Three minutes later Antonio Conte could be seen capering along the touchline in triumph as Anthony Taylor blew his whistle. And that was pretty much that, on the day the music died for the Premier League title race. Victory for Chelsea leaves Manchester City eight points clear after 11 games and playing the kind of football that suggests such a lead is, if anything, a little kind to the rest of the field. At which point there will, of course, be a temptation to pile in on Mourinho and United for failing to reach such early-season levels. The shots-on-target stats will be repeated ad nauseam (five in three games against Liverpool, Tottenham and Chelsea). Mourinho\u2019s poor record against the better teams will be used as a switch with which to thrash at his second-placed team. There are perhaps two things worth saying about this. First, the urge to assail Mourinho, to rehash the debate over whether high-grade defensive organisation also counts as football (it does), will probably overshadow Chelsea\u2019s own part in this game. This was a fine, driving performance from Conte\u2019s team. The return of N\u2019Golo Kant\u00e9 was key, allowing Ti\u00e9mou\u00e9 Bakayoko to play with vigour, if not much precision, further up the field. Above all Kant\u00e9\u2019s presence freed up Cesc F\u00e0bregas to provide a moment of calm in the middle of the fury around him, playing at times like the only grown-up on the pitch, with the craft and patience to find a little space, to pick a pass, to try to change the rhythm of the game rather than simply hurling himself into it headfirst. In F\u00e0bregas and Eden Hazard Chelsea had two players whose first thought is to find a pocket of space, to disrupt rather than reinforce the rigid defensive lines around them. Which was, it turned out, two more than United. This leads on to the second thing worth saying about this game, and indeed this season, this red-shirted juggernaut. In the debrief there will be the usual focus on managerial personality, in particular the bad art of the Jos\u00e9 Mourinho soap opera. But the more interesting subject is perhaps United itself, a vast, tangled uncooperative entity and a genuinely strange club in its own way. It is worth remembering that in 139 years only three men have ever won the league as United manager. The postwar giants, Matt Busby and Alex Ferguson, both took five years to get moving. This has been an oddly cussed kind of all-conquering club, slow to start, impossible to stop once in motion. The oddity of the post-Ferguson years has been the sameness of the problems encountered by successive managers, the sense always of a basic stodginess, of something heavy and undigested at the heart of this team. Through the oddly ponderous Moyes regime, the oddly ponderous Van Gaal years, through to the oddly ponderous, defensively miserly Mourinho interlude there is a kind of anti-momentum here, a stasis that Mourinho, who even made Real Madrid into a defensive team, was unlikely to bust through in a year and half. Undoubtedly his own meticulous defensive caution is a huge factor too. But then, a lack of fluency was always likely given the chop and change in personnel and managers, the strangeness of this squad generally. No player at the club has scored 30 United league goals yet. Hundreds of millions of pounds have been spent on players. Where has it all gone? The same faces return, same stopgaps, same almost-United players. Where is the grace and craft and beauty you would expect to be included, even as an afterthought? At Stamford Bridge Mourinho reached down to crank the throttle, to alter the trajectory of a trapped, frantic display and found \u2013 nothing there, no deeper gears. Instead there was that familiar lump in the throat, the same old fearfulness on an afternoon when Chelsea\u2019s edge in attacking quality, the calm and craft of F\u00e0bregas, was enough to take the day."
"6||Strictly Come Dancing: week seven results - as it happenedWell on that bombshell, that\u2019s IT for another Strictly week \u2013 it\u2019s been an emotional rollercoaster, thank you all for propping me up. I\u2019m off to check out the outrage levels in the comment box, for all I know it\u2019s just me and you\u2019re all totally chilled about this absolute travesty. See you next week for more dance-based larks; kick off is at 6.45pm, and don\u2019t forget to wear your poppy as I\u2019ll be checking each and every one of you*. I\u2019m on Twitter @heidistephens if you want to share some love/air your grievances in the meantime. Have a great week! Hx *I really won\u2019t. This has all got quite tearful. I\u2019m still in the denial stage of grief right now. Oh my goodness, Aston and Janette are out. DID NOT see that coming, and right now it feels like a terrible decision. Aston was better on the night, and he\u2019s better overall, and he\u2019s FAR more entertaining. The nation is now denied his final backflip-tastic Showdance, which is frankly upsetting. I need to lie down. Craig decides to save Mollie and AJ (WAIT WHAT???), and Darcey and Bruno both save Aston and Janette (OMG HIGH DRAMA). Which means Shirley has the deciding vote, and she chooses\u2026MOLLIE AND AJ. So can Mollie and AJ fix their wonky Foxtrot from last night night? This is definitely an improvement, but I\u2019m not sure it\u2019s going to be enough to save them. Meanwhile Aston and Janette\u2019s Viennese Waltz is still adorable. Can\u2019t believe Craig gave this a four last night. So who is joining Aston and Janette in tonight\u2019s dance off? Joe and Katya are safe, along with Ruth and Anton (oh FFS), Davood and Nadiya (yaaas), and Gemma and Aljaz! Which means MOLLIE AND AJ in the dance off. Not a huge surprise, but at least there\u2019s a good chance Aston and Janette will survive to dance another day. Things I don\u2019t ever need to see in slow motion: Ruth and Anton dry-humping at the end of their Paso. MY EYES. OK apparently Amy was actually Chloe, Sorry, who is Chloe again? Is she one of the spares? Has Darcey got a bet on for how big she can go with the earrings? Tonight\u2019s are dragging on her shoulders. Time for a musical interlude, courtesy of Welsh warblers The Stereophonics. It\u2019s called Caught By The Wind, and sounds like every other Sterophonics song ever. Still, nice to have a proper band on. Nice dance accompaniment from Neil and Amy too. At least I think it\u2019s Amy, they keep sneaking extra dancers in just to foil me. I\u2019m quite annoyed about Aston being in the bottom two - I know his different take on dances isn\u2019t for everyone, but I love it. His Paso last week was epic. Imagine how amazing his final showdance will be? We NEED to see that. So who is safely through to next week, and who is the first couple in tonight\u2019s dance-off?? Alexandra and Gorka are safe, along with Jonnie and Oti, Debbie and Giovanni and Susan and Kevin (hooray!). First couple in the bottom two: ASTON AND JANETTE. Oooh. OOOOOH. That is not good. But against Ruth and Anton, surely? Last night on Strictly: UTTER MADNESS. A mix of weird and wonderful song choices, some stellar performances and some wonky bits that the judges loved anyway. Shirley and Craig were both in odd moods, and I have no idea what\u2019s going on anymore. Highlights: Davood\u2019s American Smooth, Jonnie getting his groove on, Susan\u2019s joyful Jive, Hula Aljaz, the long-awaited return of training footage. Lowlights: Mollie\u2019s Foxtrot, I\u2019ve Gotta Feeling (that this song is not right for a Tango), Ruth and Anton\u2019s cheese and ham Paso. TESS AND CLAUDIA DRESS WATCH: Tess in rather fabulous assymetric hot pink, Claudia in some kind of Victorian lace nightie. It\u2019s really ugly. Tonight\u2019s pro dance is a high-sparkle Prince medley, featuring pole dancing and Neil and Katya giving it seriously mood. Also umbrellas, because Purple Rain. Katya is wearing sparkly yellow knickers. Only Gorka could pull off a floral suit and Mr T\u2019s jewellery and still look smoking hot. And we\u2019re off! The opening titles start to make me a bit melancholy at this point in the series, as we remember those we\u2019ve lost. Bring back Chizzy and Rev. Richard. Also the seals. Currently on Countryfile: Gregg Wallace is carving stag beetles into a totem pole. This seal feature has ended very badly. Not even the dashing Stav Danaos giving us the Countryfile Weather can lift my spirits. This is the second week in a row the Countryfile Casual Weatherperson has gone for minimal effort school uniform, and no doubt certain people are current FROTHING that Stav isn\u2019t wearing a poppy. Boo, dead seals. Don\u2019t make me blub, Countryfile baby seal feature. Aww, they\u2019re like puppies. I want one. \u201cSo why does this plant flower at this time of year?\u201d \u201cBecause it\u2019s an autumn plant\u201d. Countryfile blowing my mind this evening. Everyone, apparently there\u2019s a Countryfile Calendar. It\u2019s only nine pounds, and comes with a free pork pie delivered by John Craven. It\u2019s an Autumn Special on Countryfile tonight, which currently involves less rambling and more badgers. Evening all, and welcome back for tonight\u2019s Results Show! Last night\u2019s live show was all a bit\u2026odd, can\u2019t decide if it was being high on Day Nurse or the judges getting mid-season cabin fever. It should be Ruth to go home this evening (that Paso was horrific), but I have a sneaky feeling she\u2019s going to get through on entertainment value, in which case Mollie could be in trouble, or even Gemma. After last week\u2019s Halloween foregone conclusion, I\u2019m well up for some Strictly high drama. Kick off is 7.15pm as usual, so join me then! So that\u2019s IT for tonight\u2019s show \u2013 who could have imagined that Gemma and Aston would end up in the bottom half? Thanks for joining in and making me feel less bleurgh. My (imaginary) votes are off to Jonnie and Oti, Davood and Nadiya and Susan and Kevin \u2013 I reckon maybe Mollie and AJ and Ruth and Anton to be in tonight\u2019s dance off, but there are a few who could be in trouble tonight/tomorrow. I\u2019ll be back at 7.15 tomorrow for the results, so join me then, have a fab evening! Hx Scores: 8,9,9,9 - a total of 35 for Davood and Nadiya. Bruno thought they were like movie stars \u2013 Davood swept us off our feet. Craig wanted more swing and sway, but otherwise he loved it. Darcey loved the control and the transitions into the bum lift \u2013 they bought plenty of Hollywood glamour and it was fabulous. Shirley says something about arms and legs, and offers her congratulations. Nadiya looks glorious, and Davood doesn\u2019t scrub up badly either. This is pure class \u2013 great footwork, lots of swing and sway, exactly the Davood I\u2019ve been waiting for. OOH THAT LIFT! I LOVED that, which means the judges will hate it, because it\u2019s that kind of night. And finally, it\u2019s Davood and Nadiya! This week they\u2019re dancing the American Smooth to \u2018This Will Be (An Everlasting Love)\u2019 by Natalie Cole. Davood is definitely in the danger zone right now \u2013 neither good enough for top scores, or popular enough to score public votes. He needs a really good week to stay safe \u2013 going last will definitely help. Scores: 6,7,8,8 - a total of 29 for Susan and Kevin. Shirley would never let Susan paint her house but she can dance round Shirley\u2019s kitchen any day. Bruno thought Susan was giving it everything, and it had a great pump action and timing. Craig thought it was vast improvement on last week, but a bit flat-footed. Darcey loved the energy and bounce, needed a bit more contraction but definitely Susan\u2019s dance. So this Jive has a Neil Buchanan Art Attack theme, which is nice. Very decent timing from Susan and plenty of attack, and as usual she looks like she\u2019s having an absolute BALL. Kicks and flicks could be sharper, but there\u2019s plenty of Jive content there, and it\u2019s a really decent effort. Enjoyed that very much. Hooray, it\u2019s time for Susan and Kevin! Tonight they\u2019re dancing the Jive to \u2018This Ole House\u2019 by Shakin\u2019 Stevens. Not going to lie, I\u2019m a bit worried about Susan this week. She\u2019s got all the personality, but I suspect her technique is going to be a bit lacking in this Jive and the judges will punish her accordingly. Hopefully it will be so entertaining that nobody will care. Scores: 6,7,7,7 - a total of 27 for Jonnie and Oti. Darcey loved the ease of Jonnie\u2019s Salsa, it made up for the lack of hip rotation. Bruno loved the strength in the lifts and Jonnie had a great groove in the upper body, it just needed to translate to Jonnie\u2019s bottom half. Shirley loved how Jonnie is finding rhythm that suits him, and Craig loved how he showed Oti off and the lifts were spectacular. Is Shirley got beef this evening? She always goes after Darcey, what\u2019s the problem? OK Jonnie\u2019s got his chest out, and all is well with the world *fans self*. He actually looks he\u2019s having a brilliant time in his typically laid-back way, which is a Jonnie I can totally get behind. Footwork not brilliant, but lifts are amazing and I don\u2019t care. Tonight is madness and I really enjoyed that. Following that is Jonnie and Oti! This week they\u2019re dancing the Salsa to \u2018Turn Me On\u2019 by Kevin Lyttle, a dance/reggae banger from 2003 that I absolutely love. I fully expect Oti to give this both barrels, hopefully Jonnie will do likewise, he really needs to start letting all that hair down. Scores: 10, 10, 10, 10 - drink everything you can find. Craig comes out from behind the desk to bow down to Debbie for her amazing Tango. Darcey got tingles down her back, it was extraordinary and she has never seen a Tango like that. Shirley thought it was outstanding and first class. Bruno thought it was a flawless Tango masterclass. See? I know nothing. This has lovely staccato and great Tango legwork from Debbie, but quite stiff and uncomfortable-looking in places, not sure about this at all. Also this version of I\u2019ve Gotta Feeling is an absolute shocker, sounds like dustbin lids being bashed together. Next up it\u2019s Debbie and Giovanni! This week they\u2019re dancing the Tango to \u2018I Gotta Feeling\u2019 by The Black Eyed Peas. To me this feels too much of a bop to be a Tango song, but tonight is showing us that anything is possible if we\u2019re willing to expand our minds, or take mind-expanding substances. I\u2019m on the Day Nurse, so let\u2019s go with it. Scores: 4 (feel the burn Aston),6,6,6 - a total of 22 for Ruth and Anton. Bruno though Anton looked like Manuel from Fawlty Towers \u2013 it was Murder On The Dancefloor. Craig thought it was entertainment, but no technique \u2013 the public might vote for it, but Craig won\u2019t. Darcey thought Ruth came alive, and she loved the stalking kicks \u2013 Ruth is definitely going somewhere*. Shirley reckons there isn\u2019t a household in the UK that didn\u2019t enjoy that. I BEG TO DIFFER. *home, hopefully EAMONN HOLMES DRINK. This takes forever to get into hold, and features very limited actual Paso in the first half, albeit plenty of hammy Frank Spencer acting from Anton. It\u2019s a bit more dressage pony than stamping bull, but some nice arms from Ruth and a half-decent pacy finish. Also OPERA. I do not love a comedy Paso. Never do this again. It\u2019s time for Ruth and Anton! Tonight they\u2019re dancing the Paso Doble to \u2018The Shady Dame From Seville\u2019 by Julie Andrews. This is proper Paso music, but also traditionally played for laughs, so very interested to see if Ruth and Anton decide to give it full Paso drama, or go for high camp. Scores: 4,7,7,7 - a total of 25 for Aston and Janette. Bit harsh, Craig. Shirley thought there was some reasonably good footwork, but it was a bit bouncy in places and not flat enough. Bruno liked the concept but it needed more glide and less edges \u2013 the dance lost the style. Craig thought it had too much attack and lacked grace, and there was too much rise and fall. Darcey thought he lost his energy in hold. Well I liked it. What do I know? So this kicks off with some faffing in a barber\u2019s chair, but once they get into hold it\u2019s rather fabulous \u2013 great rise and fall from Aston, plenty of spinning and lovely control on the final floor spin. All rather unconventional, but what do you expect from an Aston/Janette Viennese Waltz? Also shout out to Hayley on vocals \u2013 that girl has LUNGS. Next up it\u2019s Aston and Janette! This week they\u2019re dancing the Viennese Waltz to \u2018Who\u2019s Loving You\u2019 by The Jackson 5. Love this song, love this pairing, love a Viennese. Not sure about the combination of all three, but hopefully they can bring it. Scores: 5,7,7,7 - total of 26 for Gemma and Aljaz. Not a great week. Darcey thought it was hot to start with, but it got a bit laboured after the lifts. Shirley agrees about the lifts, but Gemma\u2019s foot rotation was good. Bruno thought it was tasty with just the right amount of spice, but Gemma was a little timid in places and she needs to let herself go. Craig thought it looks clunky and heavy and there was no figure 8 rotation in Gemma\u2019s hips \u2013 it needed to be more seamless. Gemma looks entirely fierce, but that first lift was a bit of a mess. It gets better though, with some very decent hip action from Gemma. It does feel a bit like she and Aljaz are at different parties though \u2013 just not enough welly from Gemma, needs more abandon. Just FYI, hula Aljaz is my favourite Aljaz flavour. It\u2019s time for Gemma and Aljaz! Tonight they\u2019re dancing the Salsa to \u2018Sun Comes Up\u2019 by Rudimental ft. James Arthur. This song is a solid gold banger, and I have high hopes that Gemma is a secret Salsa queen. Party dance/Rudimental/Aljaz is just about my favourite combo ever. Scores: 9,9,9,9 - a total of 36 for Joe and Katya. Craig loved it, he thought it was brilliant, although Joe\u2019s left foot didn\u2019t swivel as much as his right. Darcey loved the charm and Joe\u2019s acting was amazing. Shirley says something about DJ dance hall/dark horse Joe, I have no idea what she\u2019s talking about. Imagine Shirley being less coherent than Bruno. So they all loved it. Just me then. So Joe and Katya are toy soldiers, and this is already intensely annoying. There are some timing issues from Joe, but his basic swivel isn\u2019t bad. Just all a bit\u2026wooden \u2013 maybe that\u2019s intentional?? Yeah that was a no from me. Next up it\u2019s Joe and Katya! This week they\u2019re dancing the Charleston to \u2018Alexander\u2019s Ragtime Band\u2019 by Ella Fitzgerald. I have very high hopes for this \u2013 Joe is most comfortable in these performance-led dances and Katya\u2019s choreography is incredible \u2013 remember her banjo-tastic Charleston with Ed Balls last year? Love how Tess pronounces \u201cdrumming corps\u201d as \u201cdrumming corpse\u201d in the VT. Harsh. Scores: 6,7,7,7 - a total of 27 for Mollie and AJ. Bruno thought the first half was beautiful, but there was an incident in one of the turns. Craig agrees there were some balance issues, but it was classy and stylish. Darcey thought it was elegance all the way through, and Shirley was impressed by Mollie\u2019s timing and how she recovered from the wobble. Well this is a charming Foxtrot, although Mollie\u2019s shoulders are still heading north for the winter and she looks a bit stiff. Lovely lift at the end though - the jury is still out on whether these two are doing it. Wearing a poppy on sweaty training gear is ridiculous - if someone from wardrobe has to clip it to your outfit before the cameras start rolling it doesn\u2019t count. Just saying. Next up it\u2019s Mollie and AJ! Tonight they\u2019re dancing the Foxtrot to \u2018Call Me Irresponsible\u2019 by Connie Francis. Last week\u2019s Cha Cha was a bit of a shambles and put Mollie and AJ in the bottom two. What they really need is a classic Foxtrot packed with charm and style that makes us all fall in love with her again. Absolutely no pressure whatsoever. Scores: 9,10,10,10 - 39 for Alexandra and Gorka. Almost had my Lemsip ready then. Shirley doesn\u2019t know where to start, Alexandra\u2019s Cha Cha looked like a professional (because...OK let\u2019s not go there). Bruno loved the precision, cleanliness \u2013 the best Cha Cha this season so far (not hard, to be fair). Craig loved the turnout (whatever that is), and Darcey thought it was flirty and confident, and Alexandra\u2019s hard work has paid off. So, a jazz-themed Cha Cha. Alexandra is all kinds of fabulous, as per usual. Great foot pressure and solid hip action, alongside bags of attitude. These two are sex on legs, absolutely love it. Up first tonight is Alexandra and Gorka! This week they\u2019re dancing the Cha Cha to \u2018I Got The Music In Me\u2019 by Marcia Hines. Having traditionally been a Week 1 ease-you-in-gently dance, the Cha Cha has become the Dance Of Doom this season, with everyone wanging on about how hard it is. But this is Alexandra and Gorka, so I suspect we are about to get an absolute schooling in how the Cha Cha is supposed to be done. Out come the stars \u2013 Anton has gone full matador, and Aston is sporting a giant \u2018fro. Susan and Kevin look like they\u2019re about to do a stint on Rainbow*. *ask your mum TESS AND CLAUDIA DRESS WATCH: Tess in a gravity-defying black Playboy pantsuit and massive 80s hair, Claudia in sparkly fabulousness. Two poppies present and correct. TOTAL SHOULDER COUNT: two \u2013 both on Claudia. And we\u2019re off! Last week on Strictly: HALLOWEEN SPECIAL. Featuring several treats, a few tricks, one budget dragon and a couple of rotten pumpkins. Mollie and AJ survived the dance-off and we finally said goodbye to Simon and Karen. Friends for life etc. We\u2019ve made it to the halfway point! As is traditional, I started my Christmas shopping today. YAAAAS I had two pointless answers. I win. OK, my pointless final answers: Madagascar, Honduras, St Davids. On tonight\u2019s Pointless, has to be Dave Gorman for the win, surely? He\u2019s one of the cleverest men I know. (For the record, I don\u2019t actually know Dave Gorman, but his wife and I occasionally swap recipes on Twitter, which is kind of the same thing). This week\u2019s Strictly Come Bingo: a swig of Lemsip Max Strength for any occurrence of the following: Shirley mentioning surburbs of Liverpool Incongruous poppy/outfit pairings Firework-based metaphors Mentions of illness (there\u2019s a lot of it about) Four tens Evening all, and welcome to this week\u2019s Strictly Come Dancing Liveblog! We\u2019ve made it to Week 7 and survived the horrors of Halloween, so well done us. Only ten couples remain, which means things are starting to get interesting. Here\u2019s my mid-way review of the remaining runners and riders: Top Tier: Debbie, Alexandra, Aston \u2013 the best dancers on paper, which means the only way the judges won\u2019t put them all through to the final is if two end up in the dance off. On a journey: Gemma, Joe \u2013 my money is on one of these two to take the fourth slot in the final and grab the glitterball. Too little too late: Mollie, Jonnie, Davood \u2013 I love them all, but they\u2019re not improving fast enough to make the top five. Battling for Blackpool: Ruth, Susan \u2013 both of these in danger if they\u2019re in the bottom two, but I think the public will keep Susan in for a few more weeks. Please note that I am somewhat under the weather with a cold this evening, so need everyone in the comment box to make up for any shortfall in sparkle. You know what to do. Kick off tonight is at 6.50pm, so join me under my blanket for some minute-by-minute shenanigans. See you in a bit!"
"0||Reading\u2019s Fara Williams scores goal from halfway line to beat former club ArsenalFara Williams scored twice, including a sensational winner from the halfway line, against her former club Arsenal to earn Reading a hard-fought victory in the Women\u2019s Super League Cup at Meadow Park. Williams scored directly from a second-half restart, immediately after Beth Mead had equalised just after the hour mark for Arsenal, who are expected to appoint Melbourne City assistant coach Joe Montemurro as their new manager this week. Williams\u2019s stunning 50-yard effort looped over the Arsenal goalkeeper Anna Moorhouse, who was well beaten. It was Williams\u2019s fifth goal in six games and ensured a third straight victory for Kelly Chambers\u2019s side in all competitions. \u201cThat goal shows the calibre of player Fara is,\u201d the Reading manager said. \u201cShe has been a great addition for us and looks like she has got a new lease of life. She is scoring goals, is confident and long may it continue.\u201d Arsenal came close to an equaliser with the in-form Danielle Carter finding space on the right but her effort was saved by Grace Moloney while Mead also threatened again but a stubborn Reading defence stood firm. It was a first Group One South defeat for Arsenal and meant Reading move level on points with them at the top. The next challenge for Reading will be the visit of the WSL1 leaders Chelsea next weekend, when the teams return to league action. \u201cThey are on a massive high as well, we are in a fantastic place right now and I think that we can compete with them come Sunday,\u201d Chambers said. Elsewhere, Liverpool eventually got the better of the WSL2 side Durham, winning 5-4 on penalties after the match ended 0-0, with the Scotland international Caroline Weir scoring the decisive spot-kick. \u201cWe\u2019re frustrated and disappointed. We shouldn\u2019t be coming to teams in lower leagues and not winning \u2013 we should set our standards a lot higher than that,\u201d Casey Stoney, the Liverpool defender, said. A thrilling penalty shootout also determined the outcome in Tamworth, where Aston Villa edged past Sheffield FC 11-10 on penalties to end their five-match losing run and pick up a priceless bonus point. Brighton &amp; Hove Albion came from behind to sweep aside the Group Two South leaders Tottenham Hotspur. Lucy Somes and Aileen Whelan responded to the home side\u2019s opener and Ini Umotong then struck a late double to complete a 4-1 rout. \u201cWe\u2019re aiming to finish in the top two in this group so today was a big game,\u201d Umotong said. \u201cSpurs have done so well against Bristol and Yeovil so it feels great to beat them.\u201d Reigning champions, Manchester City, beat Everton 2-1 to move top of Group Two North. The visitors looked to have snatched a draw through Simone Magill before Nikita Parris popped up with the winning goal 10 minutes from time. Birmingham City beat Doncaster Rovers 3-2 and London Bees lost 4-3 at home to Millwall in a seven-goal thriller at the Hive. Ashlee Hincks scored twice as Millwall came from behind to defeat the Bees for a second consecutive weekend. On Saturday, Bristol City endured late heartbreak after Karen Carney scored Chelsea\u2019s winner from the penalty spot in second-half stoppage time. It was Carney who fell in the area in added time, under the challenge of Frankie Brown, and the England international picked herself up to send goalkeeper Caitlin Leach the wrong way from 12 yards. Eni Aluko had given the visitors the lead with her third goal in two matches, with a cool finish from close range. \u201cThe sign of a good team is one that finds a way to win, even when they are not playing at their best,\u201d Emma Hayes, the Chelsea manager, said. Chelsea returned to the top of Group Two South on goal difference, while pointless City prop up the table."
"1||Morning mail: Paradise Papers show elite tax ploysGood morning, this is Graham Russell bringing you the main stories and must-reads on Monday 6 November. Top stories An investigation into how some of the world\u2019s biggest businesses and global figures in politics, entertainment and sport have sheltered their wealth in secretive tax havens launches today. The Paradise Papers \u2013 based on millions of pages of documents \u2013 expose the global environments in which tax abuses can thrive and the complex and seemingly artificial ways the wealthiest corporations can legally protect their wealth. The material for the Paradise Papers has come from two offshore service providers and the company registries of 19 tax havens and was obtained by the German newspaper S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung and shared by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists with partners including the Guardian. There is a video explainer here. Among the revelations: Millions of pounds from the Queen\u2019s private estate has been invested in a Cayman Islands fund \u2013 and some of her money went to a retailer accused of exploiting poor families and vulnerable people. Extensive offshore dealings by Donald Trump\u2019s cabinet members, advisers and donors, including substantial payments from a firm co-owned by Vladimir Putin\u2019s son-in-law to the shipping group of the US commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross. Twitter and Facebook received hundreds of millions of dollars in investments that can be traced back to Russian state financial institutions. The Australian arm of the global mining giant Glencore moved billions of dollars through Bermuda. At the centre of the leak is Appleby, a law firm with outposts in Bermuda, the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands, the Isle of Man, Jersey and Guernsey. Appleby says it has investigated all the allegations, and found \u201cthere is no evidence of any wrongdoing, either on the part of ourselves or our clients\u201d, adding: \u201cWe are a law firm which advises clients on legitimate and lawful ways to conduct their business. We do not tolerate illegal behaviour.\u201d The Australian Taxation Office says it is ready to use information from the Paradise Papers to launch new investigations into global tax avoidance. The tax office has been working for several months with partner agencies across the world in anticipation of the new data release by the ICIJ, it said on Monday. \u201cI am confident the ATO is in a position to respond decisively to this data release,\u201d said Mark Konza, the tax office\u2019s deputy commissioner, international. \u201cWe know and trust that most people do the right thing, and that many taxpayers identified as part of the leak will be meeting their Australian tax obligations. However, we investigate all leads and have the resources and expertise to take action against taxpayers or intermediaries found to be caught up in the illegal use of offshore structures or providers.\u201d Pauline Hanson gets on her \u201cbattler bus\u201d today on a slightly belated start to her electoral mission to conquer Queensland. One Nation is hitting the road to make up for time as a result of Hanson being overseas when the election was called, and will start in Brisbane before heading north along the coast. The electorate offensive will reach Townsville by the end of the week, before going on to far north Queensland at the weekend. The latest Galaxy poll, published yesterday, showed 54% of respondents were worried the state would go backwards under a government controlled by Hanson\u2019s party, an increase of 5% in less than a year. While the poll confirmed Labor voters were the most worried, it also revealed 61% of LNP voters were concerned about a One Nation-dominated future. There has been a 99% rise in notification rates of gonorrhoea infection in Australia\u2019s cities but an 8% drop in rural areas over the past five years, according to a new report on the nation\u2019s sexual health. Overall, notification rates have risen 63%. The annual surveillance report on HIV, viral hepatitis and sexually transmissible infections, which is released by the Kirby Institute in Sydney on Monday, shows there were 23,887 new diagnoses of gonorrhoea in 2016, with about three quarters of them in men. Men aged between 25 and 29 and women between 20 and 24 saw the largest increase in gonorrhoea infections. Labor is not letting go of the citizenship issue \u2013 it\u2019s calling for the Coalition to agree to universal disclosure in place of the audit others are demanding. Labor and the Greens plan on opening the week by prosecuting the government over its refusal to allow either a citizenship audit or disclosure plan despite lingering questions over MPs\u2019 eligibility. Alex Hawke and Josh Frydenberg were the latest Liberal MPs to be questioned about their citizenship status, something both strongly deny is in doubt. Late on Sunday Penny Wong called for Hawke and the Victorian Liberal Julia Banks \u2013who denies claims she has Greek citizenship by descent \u2013 to go the high court. \u201cAustralians can no longer believe [Malcolm]Turnbull or his MPs when they say trust us,\u201d Wong said. Sport The goals are flying in from every angle and Pep Guardiola\u2019s Manchester City are on course to smash just about every scoring record in history. Their latest victim, Arsenal, suffered a 3-1 defeat that means they have lost four of their first six away games. Manchester United, City\u2019s closest rivals, lost 1-0 at Chelsea courtesy of a \u00c1lvaro Morata header and are now eight points behind. The success of Dimitri Petratos in this season of the A-League is a case study for the future success of the competition, writes Jonathan Howcroft. He argues that players including Petratos, Daniel De Silva and Kearyn Baccus indicate that the competition must provide opportunities for local talent with high ceilings \u2013 particularly after failed experiments overseas. This should be prioritised over team success. Thinking time Matthew Abbott has covered sad stories around the world, from the Rohingya refugee crisis in Bangladesh to the South Sudan civil war, yet his work last year at Manus Island profoundly affected him. Here he writes about how in covering previous situations, there always seemed to be some kind of hope or will to fight. But on Manus, all that is left is a sense of despair. The common feeling among the men he meets is a desire to die. Miriam Lancewood has been living off grid, in the wild, for seven years now, a far cry from her previous life as a teacher in Australia. She can still pinpoint the exact moment she knew she had truly broken with social norms. \u201cIt was when the idea was born to wash my hair with urine,\u201d she recalls. Now she and husband, Peter, are walking across Europe to Turkey, with a tent and little else. The big question she keeps wondering about in the wild: where are all the women? And yes, it\u2019s Melbourne Cup week, when everyone goes over the top for a horse race and when the world\u2019s racing elite ply their annual quest, before going home wondering what the hell happened, again. It is a hangover from another era that gives annual licence to a national hangover, and no other national event can so conjure Australia\u2019s historic and reckless will to party. This year\u2019s Cup can boast a record-equalling 11 international runners, and Michael Hutak guides you through what to expect this year. What\u2019s he done now? The president will have plenty on his plate now so it\u2019s good that he got to relax with a round of golf with Japan\u2019s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, and world No 4 Hideki Matsuyama. They didn\u2019t keep score and held up white baseball caps bearing the message \u201cDonald and Shinzo Make Alliance Even Greater\u201d. But his next two destinations \u2013 South Korea and China \u2013 are expected to pose bigger challenges on the two defining issues of the trip: North Korea and trade. Media roundup There is not much room left on the front page once various pictures of horses have been squeezed in alongside the offers of Melbourne Cup expertise and sweepstakes (looking at you, Herald Sun), but some did try. The Mercury carries the story of Jo Siejka \u2013 a first-time Labour candidate and the only woman in a field of seven \u2013 who has triumphed in the one-time Liberal heartland of Pembroke. She credited her success last night to her positive campaign. The win is a huge boost for Labour ahead of Tasmania\u2019s state election. \u201cPem-broken\u201d is the headline. The Fairfax papers look at the continuing citizenship rumblings, focusing on Alex Hawke and the Senate presidency. They also say Labor and the Liberals \u201chave undertaken sweeping behind the scenes audits of all their MPs\u201d despite being publicly opposed to the idea. And the Daily Telegraph targets housing affordability, saying red tape is preventing developers building on land that has already been released for residential development. In the past five years, just 115,000 houses were built despite enough land being released to take 805,000 new dwellings, it reports. Coming up The Australian Electoral Commission will hold a special count today to determine who will replace the disqualified senators Fiona Nash, Larissa Waters, Scott Ludlam and Malcolm Roberts. The UN climate change conference kicks off tonight in Bonn, Germany. It will run for 11 days, during which you can find all our COP23 coverage here. Supporting the Guardian We\u2019d like to acknowledge our generous supporters who enable us to keep reporting on the critical stories. If you value what we do and would like to help, please make a contribution or become a supporter today. Thank you. Sign up If you would like to receive the Guardian Australia morning mail to your email inbox every weekday, sign up here."
"0||Slaven Bilic facing West Ham exit while David Moyes waits in wingsSlaven Bilic is expected to be told he is no longer West Ham United\u2019s manager during a meeting with the club\u2019s joint chairman, David Sullivan, on Monday with David Moyes expected to replace the Croat on an initial six-month contract. Bilic\u2019s position has been under threat for some time but the plan was for the former West Ham defender to leave in the summer after seeing out the three\u2011year contract he signed when appointed as Sam Allardyce\u2019s successor in June 2015. But that has appeared increasingly unlikely given recent results and it is believed the 4-1 home defeat by Liverpool on Saturday has proved to be the final straw for Sullivan and his co-chairman, David Gold. West Ham delivered a listless display against J\u00fcrgen Klopp\u2019s side, enduring their sixth defeat in the opening 11 games of the season to leave them 18th and in the relegation zone. Many supporters left the London Stadium early, with boos ringing out among those who remained when the final whistle blew. Bilic insisted later that he was not a \u201cbroken man\u201d, but the 49-year-old also accepted he was \u201cunder pressure\u201d and generally appeared resigned to his fate. With the international break having started, this is an ideal time for the Hammers to make the change and it is believed Sullivan and Gold have targeted Moyes as the man to take over. The Scot, who has been out of work since resigning from Sunderland in May after their relegation from the Premier League, said on Sunday that he had not held talks with club officials but would be interested in doing so. \u201cI\u2019ve always said I want to go back into club management,\u201d Moyes said in an interview with Bein Sports. \u201cI am interested [in becoming West Ham manager] but at the moment that vacancy has not become available. I know what Slaven must be going through.\u201d Moyes could well be in place for West Ham\u2019s match with Watford at Vicarage Road on 19 November and begin what would be his fourth spell in charge of a Premier League club following tenures at Everton and Manchester United, prior to joining Sunderland. The 54-year-old\u2019s stock has fallen considerably in recent years, with an unsuccessful spell at Real Sociedad also damaging his reputation, and that might explain why West Ham are supposedly reluctant to hand him a long-term deal. Bilic has enjoyed mixed success at West Ham. He led the club to seventh at the end of his first season in charge but endured a difficult start to the following campaign, which in part was put down to the team adjusting to life at the London Stadium having departed Upton Park. He eventually guided them to 11th and was given the funds to strengthen the squad during the summer, bringing in the likes of Javier Hern\u00e1ndez, Pablo Zabaleta and Marko Arnautovic, the latter for a club record \u00a325m fee. The pressure fell back on Bilic almost immediately, however, after West Ham lost their opening three games, which led to his position being discussed by Sullivan and Gold last month, after the 3-0 home defeat by Brighton. It was reported that Bilic was subsequently given two games to save his job and he went on to guide West Ham to two creditable results \u2013 a 3-2 win at Tottenham Hotspur in the Carabao Cup and a 2-2 league draw at Crystal Palace. But following the game, and performance, on Saturday his time finally appears to be up."
"2||Jack Sock wins Paris Masters as Andy Murray drops out of top 10Jack Sock, a name easier to remember than some of his past performances, blasted an even lesser known outsider, Filip Krajinovic, off the Bercy court on Sunday to win the Paris Masters and claim a debut place in next week\u2019s season-closing ATP World Tour Finals in London. Both finalists in the last Masters tournament of the season \u2013 even through the gauze of television \u2013 showed touches of art and delicacy to go with their grit in just under two hours, filling a vacuum left by the absence of the game\u2019s big hitters. Among other interested absentees watching from a distance, surely, was the 2016 Paris champion, Andy Murray. How cruel, he might have wondered, this game can be. A year ago almost to the day in the same stadium, the Scot rose to No1 in the world after 11 years of toil in the game\u2019s most competitive era and carried on unbeaten to rule in the finals at the O2 Arena for the first time. His next victory will be over a hip injury \u2013 the legacy of his 2017 efforts - that is yet to be satisfactorily resolved before his planned Tour comeback in Australia in the new year. Sock\u2019s 5-7, 6-4, 6-1 victory against the Serbian qualifier Krajinovic - who began the week with a single Tour level win to his name this year and who rises from 77 to 33 in the world - could be career-changing for the American. He is a top-tenner now, the No1 American and the first since Andy Roddick seven years ago to win one of these baubles, snapping a 69-tournament run of European champions. Sock, 25 and only now beginning to cash in on his talent after six years on the Tour, earlier in the week came from 1-5 down in the third to beat Kyle Edmund \u2013 and even that should be encouraging for the Briton, who otherwise has finished the season strongly. \u201cThis is an incredible moment for me,\u201d Sock said afterwards. \u201cFilip played some amazing tennis. I hope we play more big finals.\u201d For Murray the future is less certain. In the four months since he last hit a ball in public he has been waiting with fluctuating degrees of anxiety for both the arrival of his second child and his own return to the court in the city where he was born. The first happy expectation has sustained the gloomier latter one. For all the communal goodwill being ushered his way on both counts, an exhibition match against Roger Federer in Glasgow on Tuesday evening will do no more than demonstrate that he can move without embarrassment in front of a paying audience. Plans to return to the Tour in Brisbane in January before the Australian Open in Melbourne are still in place, although it is unlikely Murray will match Federer\u2019s extraordinary feat of last February when he put knee surgery and six months of rest behind him to beat Rafael Nadal in the final, lifting the 18th of his 19 major titles. That was a sporting miracle; Murray\u2019s ambitions\u2019s are more prosaic. Although social media clips have shown him striking the ball with pleasing ease during private practice sessions in south London over the past few weeks, there has been only flickering evidence that he has recovered the sideways movement he needs to compete at the highest level. His left hip remains the focal point of his concern and there are suspicions the problem might be arthritis; if that is so, there are no guarantees. The player, who has decided against surgery in favour of intense rehab, has been reluctant to expand on the exact nature of his problem, which is reason enough in itself for his fans to be worried. Even the long rivalry between Murray and Federer and the Scot\u2019s own competitive instincts are unlikely to lift Tuesday night\u2019s match at the SSE Hydro \u2013 the second of many planned events under the banner of Andy Murray Live \u2013 beyond that of a friendly hit-up. Having tumbled to No15 in the world since losing against Sam Querrey in the Wimbledon quarter-finals in July, Murray knows better than all the well\u2011wishers how far he is from the summit he occupied until Nadal replaced him as world No1 in August. He has not been alone in his suffering. Novak Djokovic, Stan Wawrinka, Kei Nishikori, Milos Raonic and Nick Kyrgios have all drifted from the smoke of battle. Now Nadal has joined them, his chronic knee pain recurring to force him to quit in Paris, and he is no certainty to be ready for London next week. Federer, too, has taken breaks, short and long, this season. Until last week Murray was still world No3 but he knew the ATP year-on-year rankings out on Monday would send him tumbling out of the top 10 for the first time in three years. He will look down the list and need no reminding that he has an overall winning record of 72-24 against 10 of those above him: Alexander Zverev (1-0); Dominic Thiem (2-1), Marin Cilic (12-3), Grigor Dimitrov (8-3), Wawrinka (10-8), David Goffin (5-0), Juan Mart\u00edn del Potro (7-3), Querrey (7-2), Kevin Anderson (6-2) and Jo-Wilfried Tsonga (14-2). The exception, of course, is Djokovic, who holds a career log of 25-11 over Murray. But the Serb has similarly serious obstacles in front of him, from his soul to his aching elbow. These are tough times."
"0||Ars\u00e8ne Wenger accuses Raheem Sterling of diving and may face FA chargeArs\u00e8ne Wenger may face an FA charge after saying Raheem Sterling \u201cdives well\u201d and criticising the referee, Michael Oliver, in Arsenal\u2019s 3-1 defeat at the Premier League leaders Manchester City. Wenger claimed City will be unstoppable if they receive similar decisions to those that allowed Sergio Ag\u00fcero\u2019s penalty and Gabriel Jesus\u2019s goal in Arsenal\u2019s defeat at the Etihad Stadium. In response Pep Guardiola hit back, claiming Arsenal defeated Burnley 1-0 last October at Turf Moor thanks to a late Laurent Koscielny goal scored with a hand. City were leading 1-0 when Oliver awarded a penalty for Nacho Monreal\u2019s challenge on Sterling after 50 minutes. Ag\u00fcero scored and, although Alexandre Lacazette pulled one back just after the hour, Silva created Jesus\u2019s 74th-minute strike despite being marginally offside. The victory maintained City\u2019s unbeaten start to the season, giving Guardiola\u2019s team 31 points from 11 games. Yet the officiating that allowed Ag\u00fcero\u2019s penalty and Silva to continue playing left Wenger furious. \u201cI believe it was no penalty. We know that Raheem Sterling dives well, he does that very well,\u201d he said. \u201cAnd the third goal was offside. I am very upset because at 2-1 we were in the game. The third goal was the killer and it is not by coincidence that mistakes always go for the home team, as we know. \u201cIt is unfortunate that the game finished the way it finished. I am disappointed. You can accept it if City win in a normal way, they are a good side, but this is unacceptable. Last season we lost two offside goals and it has happened again.\u201d Asked who may be able to stop City, Wenger was again scathing. \u201cIt will be difficult this season, the way they have started, the quality they have, but you never know. If on top of that they have decisions at home like that, they will be unstoppable,\u201d the Frenchman said. \u201cYou have seen what I have seen. The fact you tell me it is an offside goal says enough. I don\u2019t want to take anything away from the quality but it happened at a moment when we were really in the game at 2-1 and it killed the game. It is the second year. We got two offside goals here last year [in a 2-1 loss] and one this year. \u201cThe physical level [of referees] is very good, the decisions \u2013 at 2-1 we are in the game and he gives a key offside goal, and that kills the game for us. Last year if you look as well, we conceded two offside goals. Of course, they are a top team, but that makes it even more difficult for you.\u201d Wenger\u2019s claim that Sterling simulates leaves the manager open to a potential FA charge as it questions the integrity of the player. Guardiola brushed off the comments. \u201cNo, we won,\u201d said City\u2019s manager. \u201cWe won in the best way and we deserved [to win] by far. The chances we created and the few chances we conceded. They tell me it was offside and I don\u2019t like to win in that way, so it\u2019s like this, but sometimes Arsenal win in Burnley 1-0 with a hand, so sometimes it is like this. The way we like to play, we did it really well,\u201d he said. Guardiola was especially pleased with City\u2019s start to November given how poorly they fared 12 months ago. \u201cOur main problem last season was November, we had four games, three at home and were not able to win any,\u201d the City manager said. \u201cToday we won and hopefully we can keep that level in the next months. \u201cAfter a Champions League game [the 4-2 win at Napoli] it is always complicated. The last nine times we play against Arsenal, we won just once. Well done, well deserved. We played better. \u201cIn the first half, with the chances we created, we could have scored the second and third goal. 1-0, 2-0 is always complicated. \u201cWe played really good and we found in the bad moments, when we were tired, that we were mentally stable. And that is why I am so pleased with the performance.\u201d City now have the international break and Guardiola said: \u201cWe cannot deny the last two months. We won all the games, in the Carabao Cup, in the Champions League, in the Premier League. To do it over two months is so difficult, so I am so happy.\u201d"
"7||Hacks review: Donna Brazile lifts lid on Hillary and the Democrats' disasterTwice in the past five presidential elections, the Democrats won the popular vote only to meet defeat in the electoral college. In 2000, a mere 537-vote deficit in Florida and the US supreme court stood between Al Gore and the White House. Sixteen years later, Hillary Clinton garnered a 2.86 million vote plurality, only to see her ambitions dashed in the Rust Belt. Both times, Donna Brazile was there, first as Gore\u2019s campaign manager, then in 2016 as the interim chair of the Democratic National Committee (DNC). Brazile most certainly has a story to tell. In Hacks, her new book, she points fingers, names names and self-absolves. Replete with f-bombs, male anatomical references and tales of alcohol consumption, the book is an easy and vivid read, everything one expects in a first-person campaign narrative \u2013 except for its detailed discussion of Russia\u2019s hacks, WikiLeaks, and threats to Brazile herself. On that score, the book is down-right alarming. From the get-go, Brazile bristles with contempt for Robby Mook, the data-driven Clinton campaign manager, and Brandon Davis, Mook\u2019s emissary to the Democratic National Committee (DNC). She is respectfully disapproving of Clinton\u2019s hauteur and tin ear, which she captures with a deft touch, and bathes Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Brazile\u2019s predecessor at the debt-ridden DNC, with acid-laced kindness. Brazile also takes the Obamas to task for standing idly as the Democratic party imploded on their watch. As Brazile tells it, \u201cthree titanic egos \u2013 Barack, Hillary, and Debbie \u2013 had stripped the party to a shell for their own purposes.\u201d Brazile pummels Mook. Mincing no words, she declares: \u201cI want to talk about the arrogance and isolation of the Clinton campaign and the cult of Robby Mook, who felt fresh but turned up stale, in a campaign haunted by ghosts and lacking in enthusiasm, focus, and heart.\u201d In Brazile\u2019s view, campaigns are supposed to be about competence in execution, passion and fun. On this score, Mook was 0-for-3. Worse, Mook and his men sought to put the kibosh on Brazile\u2019s efforts to bolster the DNC and the Democrats, which tack was driven in large measure by sexism but not racism, according to the African-American Brazile. Over a conference call with the Clinton campaign\u2019s high command, Brazile recalls, genital size became the measure of all things. She announced: \u201cThis feels like power and control. Gentlemen, let\u2019s just put our dicks on the table and see who\u2019s got the bigger one, because I know that mine is bigger than all of yours.\u201d Interestingly, Huma Abedin, Clinton\u2019s supposed alter ego, is never present during these dust-ups, giving the impression that she was simply Clinton\u2019s kid-sister and disgraced former congressman Anthony Weiner\u2019s ex-wife. Abedin as strategic player? Not so much. After Clinton\u2019s \u201cdeplorables\u201d speech at Cipriani Wall Street and her collapse at the 9/11 ceremony in lower Manhattan, Brazile writes that she was forced to take stock of Clinton\u2019s candidacy and assess the possibility of replacing the ticket, a power actually possessed by the DNC. In Brazile\u2019s view, a combination of Vice-President Joe Biden and Senator Cory Booker would have been a dream team, particularly in the face of Donald Trump\u2019s appeal to white working-class voters and the Democrats\u2019 dependence on minority turnout. Brazile also writes that Clinton\u2019s failure to immediately come clean about her bout with pneumonia \u201cfed the impression that Hillary was lying to us\u201d. As to be expected, Brazile goes easy on Brazile. She makes no mention of the DNC spending scarce funds in get-out-the-vote efforts that targeted Chicago (in reliably blue Illinois) and New Orleans (in predictably red Louisiana). She also pushes back hard against accusations that she leaked primary debate questions to the Clinton campaign, even as she was a CNN commentator. Still, Brazile acknowledges that as the result of binding agreements hammered out by Wasserman Schultz, the DNC had become a Clinton campaign subsidiary. Yes, the Bernie Bros really had reason to be angry. The fix was in. Brazile also deals with race, gender, and identity politics. Hacks recounts how turnout among black women dropped from Obama\u2019s presidential bids to Clinton\u2019s run, and discusses incarceration as an issue of particular concern to African American voters. At the same time, Brazile, an adjunct assistant professor, writes of how her students disapproved of identity politics. Sounding awfully like Columbia\u2019s Mark Lilla, Brazile comments that her students thought Clinton spent too much time \u201ctrying to appeal to people based on their race, or their gender, or their sexual orientation\u201d and not enough time on the issues. In reality, even with Donald Trump, this is a problem the Democrats must address. Running up the score in Blue America, without an eye toward America\u2019s interior, is a surefire way of making 2020 a rerun of 2000 and 2016."
"8||Fireworks shoot into crowd at hotel's bonfire night displayHotel bosses have apologised after rogue fireworks shot into crowds during a free display at their premises on Saturday evening. The Antrobus hotel in Amesbury, Wiltshire was hosting a fireworks night for guests when some of the explosives projected beyond the safety cordon, causing minor injuries. Eyewitnesses heavily criticised the hotel\u2019s handling of the incident and reported that victims \u2013 including a number of young children \u2013 suffered burns. An ambulance service spokesman said 14 people were treated, although none suffered serious injuries. The venue added that no one was taken to hospital. Katie Millward, a 25-year-old chemist from Andover, said: \u201cWhen the fireworks started, one went to the sky, one went into the crowd close to us, then one landed on the picnic bench where we were sitting. We started running but there was nowhere to run to. The doors were locked to get into the building. \u201cAfter one landed on our table we ran and still they were firing. They just seemed to keep on coming into the crowd.\u201d Jodie Hobbs, 35, from Amesbury, criticised staff, who allegedly continued to serve alcohol after the incident. She described the event as \u201cawful\u201d. The mother of five said: \u201cIt was so busy. The fireworks went off at 8pm, then all I saw were fireworks coming towards people in the crowd and sparks everywhere, smoke, everyone screaming and turning around to try and get back inside.\u201d A hotel statement read: \u201cA single display box, containing multiple fireworks, malfunctioned at [Saturday\u2019s] display. Regrettably, despite the safety cordon exceeding the manufacturer\u2019s guidelines, some projectiles ejected towards the crowd line. The display was immediately ended and emergency services called. It is now apparent that thankfully no serious injuries occurred, with all injured treated at the scene.\u201d Earlier, the hotel said it wanted to \u201capologise profusely for this very regrettable situation\u201d in a short post on its Facebook page. The statement continued: \u201cThe hotel\u2019s team put on [Saturday\u2019s] free event as a community event and worked diligently with the suppliers to ensure that [the] event was safe and exceeded requirements in respect of safety and distance. \u201cWe are mortified about what has occurred and would like to apologise to all those affected. Please rest assured that a full investigation will take place.\u201d The venue remained closed for the rest of Saturday, but reopened on Sunday. A South Western ambulance service spokesman said: \u201cWe attended and treated 14 people, none of whom had serious injuries and none of whom needed to be taken to hospital.\u201d"
"2||Breeders\u2019 Cup: Talismanic helps Godolphin hit back at Coolmore empireGodolphin have not got the better of Aidan O\u2019Brien many times in recent seasons, and least of all in this record-breaking year for the man from Ballydoyle. But the royal blue team came away from this year\u2019s Breeders\u2019 Cup with two wins to O\u2019Brien\u2019s one, and both were recorded on the main Saturday card, including Talismanic\u2019s success in the Turf, second only to the Classic in terms of its prize fund and prestige. Like the supporters of a football team who have finally notched a derby win against their fiercest rival, they will have felt relief as well as jubilation on Sunday morning. Neither of their winners started favourite, or even at single-figure odds, whereas O\u2019Brien had fancied runners throughout the two days, including Highland Reel, third behind Talismanic in the Turf. But when it mattered, both Wuheida and Talismanic delivered. O\u2019Brien, of course, has 27 Group One winners this year to confirm Ballydoyle\u2019s status as the most powerful and successful stable in the game. He also left California with another Breeders\u2019 Cup winner, his 12th in all, and the dirt-bred Mendelssohn, who took Friday\u2019s Juvenile Turf, offers hope of a serious challenge for the Kentucky Derby next May. Two winners at the Breeders\u2019 Cup does not even begin to close the gap between the Godolphin and Coolmore/Ballydoyle bloodstock operations, which has been extending for at least a dozen years. But it is \u2013 or could be \u2013 a start, and Joe Osborne, who took over from John Ferguson as Godolphin\u2019s chief executive after infighting in the organisation went public earlier this year, will have slept well on the flight to Melbourne, where Godolphin run Hartnell in Tuesday\u2019s Melbourne Cup. Hartnell is an outsider in the Flemington race, in which Hughie Morrison\u2019s Marmelo and last year\u2019s winner Almandin, with Frankie Dettori booked to ride, are vying for favouritism. Dettori\u2019s Breeders\u2019 Cup was a series of disappointments, not least when Ulysses, the favourite for the Turf, was scratched less than 24 hours before the race, but Almandin has a clear chance to give him a first success in Australia\u2019s most famous race, having suffered plenty of criticism locally for some of his rides there in the past. But if Hartnell is unlikely to add to Godolphin\u2019s tally, their global operation, which includes horses in training in more than 20 stables, has still won 18 Group One events in 2017, no match for O\u2019Brien\u2019s 27 from a single yard but an impressive return all the same. William Buick, who rode as calm and uncomplicated a race as you could ever hope to see aboard Wuheida, the Filly &amp; Mare Turf winner, has the Breeders\u2019 Cup monkey off his back. Godolphin can also stride into 2018 and beyond having recently cast off the straitjacket of Sheikh Mohammed\u2019s decade-long boycott of Coolmore-sired yearlings at the sales. There have, of course, been quite a few false dawns for Godolphin in recent years. There was, for instance, the charismatic young trainer who moved into their Moulton Paddocks complex in Newmarket, saddled a Classic winner and then gave his name to the Mahmood al-Zarooni doping scandal. What might be different this time, though, is that over the course of the next two or three years, Godolphin should once again be able to deploy Sheikh Mohammed\u2019s buying power to full effect in the sales ring. The degree to which the boycott of Coolmore-sired yearlings was a personal dispute with John Magnier, Coolmore\u2019s driving force, was probably exaggerated. Both men are ultimately in the stallion business, and it makes commercial sense to spend their money boosting their own rosters. But the form book makes it clear that Coolmore have had the best of the bloodlines for a decade at least, and arguably since Sadler\u2019s Wells established himself as Europe\u2019s top sire almost 30 years ago. As a result, the old policy of spending Dubai\u2019s money on Dubai\u2019s stallions was self-defeating. That wrong turn has now been acknowledged and Godolphin have started to retrace their steps. Godolphin, once again, could be on the way back \u2013 and this time they have got Galileo\u2019s. Greg Wood\u2019s tips for Monday Kempton Park 1.20 Ocala 1.50 Beyond Recall 2.20 Express Lady 2.50 Best Of Days (nb) 3.20 Ply (nap) 3.50 Boy In The Bar 4.20 Dourado Plumpton 1.40 King Vince 2.10 Roksana 2.40 Dontminddboys 3.10 Fixed Rate 3.40 Orchestrated 4.10 Be Daring Southwell 1.00 Inchcolm 1.30 Brown Trix 2.00 Chirico Vallis 2.30 Cliffside Park 3.00 Hidden Oasis 3.30 Sky Pirate 4.00 Doctor Dex"
"9||Why are we creating educational ghettoes in 2017?Catherine Pepinster (Catholics still face prejudice, 400 years on, 2 November) is often right, but is wrong in asserting that tackling discrimination in the admission policies of faith school is rooted in anti-Catholic prejudice. The fight against discriminatory schools applies to all faiths, not just Catholics, nor is it anti-faith, but based on the belief that if we want to have a tolerant, inclusive society, we need to have a tolerant, inclusive education system that produces it. That means not segregating children into different faith schools, which limits their horizons and ensures the next generation grows up as strangers to each other. Why are we creating educational ghettoes in 2017? Parents in Northern Ireland appreciate this more than most others, which explains the recent growth in the number of integrated schools there. We should learn from their example. The Catholic church also seems to have no problem elsewhere in the developed world, where its schools are not permitted to religiously select pupils. This is why the Catholic International Education Office describes a Catholic school as \u201ca non-discriminatory school, open to all\u201d. It is ironic that here in the UK we say we want children to learn to be good citizens and share the same values, but then divide them at the school gate into faith groups, immediately instilling an \u201cus and them\u201d culture. If we love our neighbours as ourselves, then a faith ethos can coexist alongside social cohesion. Rabbi Dr Jonathan Romain Chair, Accord Coalition for inclusive education \u2022 Catherine Pepinster claims that policies which promote integration in and equal access to state-funded schools are somehow evidence of \u201cantipathy to Catholic schools\u201d. This is patently false. The 50% cap on religious selection in school admissions to which she refers has nothing to say about the merits or otherwise of Catholic schools, nor of religious schools more generally. In fact, all it proffers is that the people whose taxes pay for their local schools should have at least some access to them, and that it might not be the best idea to continue allowing entirely segregated religious schools to become a feature of our increasingly diverse society. This sounds perfectly reasonable to me, and indeed a recent poll revealed that 67% of Catholics, and 71% of Christians as a whole, thought so too. In sum, policies designed to promote integration and equal access in all schools are no more motivated by prejudice towards Catholics than were anti-apartheid policies motivated by prejudice towards whites. Jessica Perera Fair Admissions Campaign \u2022 Catherine Pepinster complains that any prejudice left against Catholics comes from \u201cthose who are avowedly secular\u201d, and cites the \u201cantipathy to Catholic schools\u201d as evidence of this. As a past governor of Catholic schools and colleges my objections to state-funded faith schools have nothing to do with theology but rather the damage done to our society by educating children of different faiths separately. We would not tolerate educating children of different races apart \u2013 why is religion different? Additionally all faith schools pursue discriminatory employment policies that would not be tolerated elsewhere in society. I find these as objectionable as the constitutional requirement that all future monarchs must be Protestant. Now that is evidence that \u201cBritain\u2019s Catholics still face prejudice\u201d. Declan O\u2019Neill Oldham \u2022 Giles Fraser (Loose canon, 3 November) implies that the Catholic church tried to prevent people translating the Bible into their own languages. That is not true. The Catholic church compiled the Bible (something acknowledged by Luther) and the first person to translate any part of it into (Old) English was a Catholic priest, Bede, in the eighth century. Johannes Gutenberg, the printer, was a Catholic and the Gutenberg Bible was an edition of the Catholic Vulgate version. It was written in Latin but the Church\u2019s role in the mass production of the Bible in any language does not sit with a policy of keeping it out of the hands of ordinary people. Not long after the Gutenberg Bible was printed, and years before Luther\u2019s 95 theses, the Bible had been translated into German. I would like to add, and I am sure Giles Fraser would agree, that while these debates may became heated, those of us who believe the Bible are commanded to love one another, and 90% or more of the statement of belief, the Credo, of the Catholic Church today is in complete agreement with the core beliefs of fundamentalist Protestantism. Brendan O\u2019Brien London \u2022 It is ironic to see the English so loudly celebrating \u201cthe 500th anniversary of the Reformation\u201d. Yes, Martin Luther was a great (if flawed) man whose influence was, and continues to be, immense. But how on earth can your report (Catholic and Protestant leaders unite to mark start of Reformation, theguardian.com, 31 October) so completely ignore the Englishman John Wycliffe (1330-84), the man sometimes referred to as \u201cthe Morning Star of the Reformation\u201d? As we know from the New Testament, which Wycliffe and his followers worked to make available in plain English, \u201ca prophet is not without honour, but in his own country, and among his kin\u201d. Neil Hickman Hardingham, Norfolk \u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com \u2022 Read more Guardian letters \u2013 click here to visit gu.com/letters"
"0||\u00c1lvaro Morata heads Chelsea to victory over Manchester UnitedThis is the kind of result to stifle talk of crisis at Chelsea. The Premier League\u2019s summit may remain distant but the joyous din which erupted inside the ground at the final whistle was an outpouring of relief. Antonio Conte celebrated manically, fists raised in triumph towards those in the upper tier of the East stand, before striding out on to the pitch to acknowledge each side of the ground in turn. Jos\u00e9 Mourinho waited near the tunnel to shake his counterpart\u2019s hand but eventually gave up. He looked distinctly unimpressed to be enduring Conte\u2019s moment. It may seem vaguely ludicrous that a head coach who has now overseen 37 wins from his 49 Premier League games in charge could be considered under pressure but Conte had needed this victory. That humiliation in Rome in midweek had left him embattled, with suggestions the hierarchy had not taken kindly to the realism with which he has approached a cluttered campaign, and the first murmurings of discontent within the playing squad surfacing with every setback. Yet against imposing opponents in Manchester United, and not for the first time since he arrived in England, his major decisions paid off: his side played with the same system, style and swagger as at Atl\u00e9tico Madrid in September; N\u2019Golo Kant\u00e9\u2019s reintegration in midfield was key to a second clean sheet in nine games; Andreas Christensen, preferred to David Luiz in the middle of the back three, was mightily impressive. The Brazilian had worn heavy strapping on his right leg at the Stadio Olimpico but had been omitted here for \u201ctactical reasons\u201d, according to Conte, with the implication it was down to shoddy form. The Italian had pointed pre-match to Christensen\u2019s early-season displays and to the fact \u201cthe club likes to bring in a young player\u201d when it came to Ethan Ampadu, a 17-year-old without any experience of top-flight football, being preferred on the bench over David Luiz. After the match Conte suggested David Luiz would have \u201cto work really hard, or [risk to] be on the bench or in the stand\u201d. As it was, the defender sat behind the dugouts next to his compatriot Kenedy, whose yawn in Thursday\u2019s debrief had been noted, and watched his team-mates put in their most convincing display for more than a month. It will be intriguing to see how such a charismatic figure now forces his way back into the fold. Certainly his team-mates have demonstrated they can do without him. It was tempting to wonder whether Mourinho\u2019s presence in the dugout had merely coaxed the best from Chelsea, as it once did so often when he was on the payroll. His current team never showed any real control on this occasion, their few chances squeezed out on the break \u2013 they mustered only two on target all afternoon \u2013 until a late rally which threatened to earn them an equaliser they would not have merited. Their own gap from Manchester City is now eight points, which \u201cis not the same as eight points in the Portuguese league, La Liga, the Bundesliga\u201d\u201a according to the manager. The disappointment was in their inability to wound their hosts, with Marouane Fellaini\u2019s late volley, turned away smartly by Thibaut Courtois, the closest they came to reward. Marcus Rashford\u2019s was a pesky presence but there was no real rhythm to their approach and, without their injured absentees, they were forced too often into retreat. Romelu Lukaku, one spin and shot from distance aside, was isolated and contained. Teams far less imposing than United have created considerably more against these opponents this term, and that ended up feeling rather damning. Admittedly Kant\u00e9\u2019s energetic presence was significant and inevitably bolstered Chelsea\u2019s collective. The champions had kept only one clean sheet during his six-game absence, with a hamstring injury sustained on international duty with France. Yet it was the home side\u2019s attacking play which truly caught the eye. Their goal had been forged in familiar fashion, C\u00e9sar Azpilicueta flinging over one of those trademark diagonal crosses from which Diego Costa and \u00c1lvaro Morata have benefited in recent times. The Spaniard met it emphatically, having trundled unnoticed into the space between United\u2019s centre-halves with Chris Smalling drawn towards Ti\u00e9mou\u00e9 Bakayoko\u2019s run, to plant his header beyond a static David de Gea and leave Mourinho cursing another miserable homecoming. But Chelsea should have had more to show for their dominance. The excellent Eden Hazard, whose ankles had been kicked raw by the end, was denied regularly by De Gea, Cesc F\u00e0bregas nodded into the side-netting from close range, Bakayoko missed two glorious opportunities and the referee, Anthony Taylor, penalised Morata for a push on Phil Jones early on after the defender had inadvertently conjured a volley as he crumpled clumsily which arrowed the ball into the top corner. Each miss had left Conte agonised on the touchline, his impatience drawing warnings from the fourth official, Craig Pawson, for encroachment as Mourinho watched on, presumably wondering if he would be treated quite so leniently. But this was the Italian\u2019s day. \u201cWe can win or lose but our spirit must be this,\u201d said Conte. \u201cWe started this season with a lot of problems. We were up and down. But this game showed that, if we want it, we can do it.\u201d"
"10||Taxpayers pay twice for crucial drugs like AvastinIt is shocking, but not surprising, that big drugs companies are threatening to sue the NHS for using cheaper versions of drugs that could save people from going blind (Drug firms trying to stop cheap eye treatment on NHS, 1 November). Another part of this story is that the two medicines in question \u2013 Lucentis (known generically as ranibizumab) and Avastin (bevacizumab) are based on the groundbreaking discovery of monoclonal antibodies, which were developed with UK public funding. The NHS itself funded the trials to show that off-licence use of Avastin is as good as Lucentis, a finding that benefits patients not just in the UK but also globally. So the taxpayer is paying twice, first for public investment in the original research and clinical trials and then for the high prices being charged by the pharmaceutical companies. It is high time for conditions to be attached to publicly funded research and development to prevent these excessive profits and ensure crucial drugs are accessible and affordable for all. Heidi Chow Global Justice Now Tabitha Ha STOPAIDS \u2022 I read with interest your article on the amount that could be saved for the NHS by using the non-licensed drug Avastin in eye conditions such as macular degeneration. You state \u00a384m. We found that it was more like \u00a3539m per year, deduced from a freedom of information act request from all hospitals in the UK. Alastair Lockwood Queen Alexandra hospital, Portsmouth"
"5||Hard Brexit need not make us worse offYou report (4 November) on how Brexit will raise the cost of living by as much as \u00a3930 per year for a household, based on research published in the National Institute Economic Review. There is a certain logical problem with this assertion. It is entirely true that under WTO terms we must charge the same import tariff to all other members of the WTO \u2013 essentially, the rest of the world. This is known as \u201cmost-favoured nation\u201d (MFN) status. The WTO lays out the maximums these can be, any country being at liberty to impose something less, including a rate of zero. Your report and the research it is based upon assume that we will charge the maximum permissible rates. But as this research points out it is we, as consumers, who pay such import tariffs. They increase the price of the imports we purchase \u2013 to the point that if we imposed maximum WTO tariffs then each British household would be as much as \u00a3930 a year worse off. Yes, obviously, politics is involved here \u2013 but even so, why would we do something as blitheringly stupid as making ourselves poorer in this manner? The entire point of trade itself is to gain access to those imports of the things that foreigners make better or cheaper than we ourselves do. The only rational trade stance to have is thus unilateral free trade, which this country experimented with, most successfully, after the repeal of the Corn Laws. Brexit offers us the opportunity to do that again \u2013 to obey the WTO insistences on MFN status and charge ourselves nothing for our purchases of the goods and services of the world. As other research has shown, this will make us all richer, not poorer. Tim Worstall Senior fellow, Adam Smith Institute \u2022 Never mind the cost of cabbages. In 1752 European intellectuals robbed us of 11 days. What I say is \u2013 leave Europe now and give us our 11 days back! Tom Lerwill Bronygarth, Shropshire \u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com \u2022 Read more Guardian letters \u2013 click here to visit gu.com/letters"
"5||Don\u2019t be too hard on Gordon BrownI agree with much of Deborah Orr\u2019s column about Gordon Brown (Brown\u2019s fatal flaw? A lack of confidence, 31 October). I knew him when he was a shadow minister and then during the early years of his spell as chancellor. When people ask me what Gordon and Tony Blair were really like, I tell them just how amusing Gordon was in those early years. As a political journalist, I would go down to the bar where hacks and politicians rubbed shoulders before the evening vote took place. Gordon would come down perhaps 10 minutes before the vote \u2013 sometimes John Smith would join us \u2013 and he was tremendously funny. He had an ability to put you down delicately, which made everyone else chuckle at your expense but taught you to be more circumspect next time round. Viewing the situation from closer quarters subsequently at Labour HQ and then in No 10, I think there were two elements that diminished Gordon. First, the desire to be prime minister and then to be elected prime minister consumed him. My view then was that he would have gone to his grave a broken man had he not been prime minister. My view now is he will probably go his grave a broken man because he was not elected prime minister. Second, I think he was taken in by the then GMB view of life: you are either with us and we will help you; or you are against us and we will kill you. Most of the team around him lived by that ethic \u2013 Ed Miliband was a notable exception \u2013 and that created the toxic Blair-versus-Brown combat that characterised the second half of the Blair regime. He has a towering intellect. He was a great communicator. He was a voracious workaholic. He was certainly flawed, but he was \u2013 and is \u2013 a huge figure in international politics. We should not be too hard on him. Phil Murphy Weybridge, Surrey \u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com \u2022 Read more Guardian letters \u2013 click here to visit gu.com/letters"
"11||Corbyn defends promotion of MP accused of inappropriate behaviourJeremy Corbyn has defended promoting Kelvin Hopkins to his shadow cabinet after the Labour MP had been reprimanded over claims of inappropriate behaviour, saying that as far as he knew, \u201cthe case had been closed\u201d. With a series of allegations faced by some Labour MPs, as well as a number of Conservatives, Corbyn has been under pressure to explain why he made Hopkins shadow culture secretary in 2016 after complaints from a party activist. Ava Etemadzadeh alleges the Luton North MP rubbed himself against her during a hug and sent her inappropriate text messages in 2014 and 2015, which he denies. It is understood Hopkins was spoken to about what happened and reprimanded by the then chief whip, Rosie Winterton. Hopkins was suspended from Labour last week pending an investigation. Hopkins, who is no longer in the shadow cabinet, was appointed amid a wave of changes caused by frontbenchers resigning in protest at Corbyn. The Labour leader said on Sunday he knew about the allegations, but believed it was over. \u201cYes, I was aware that he had been reprimanded and I was also made aware that that was the end of the matter,\u201d Corbyn said. \u201cHe had been reprimanded, the case had been closed. I thought it was reasonable to appoint him, albeit for a very short time, to shadow cabinet.\u201d He added: \u201cI made a decision to put him into the shadow cabinet for a short time and I thought that was the right thing to do. And now the case has been reopened and it will be looked at again. \u201cHe has been suspended from party membership, which is a decision I took immediately I heard about the later revelations.\u201d Etemadzadeh has said she was dismayed when she learned Hopkins had become a shadow minister. In a statement after he was suspended, Hopkins said he \u201cabsolutely and categorically\u201d denied he acted in an inappropriate way. He said: \u201cI simply put an arm around her shoulder to give her a brief, slight hug just before getting into my car. \u201cI did not hold her tight. I did not rub any part of my body against Ava. She waved me off as I drove away and did not say anything whatsoever to suggest that anything had occurred that upset her, let alone revolted her.\u201d Labour\u2019s shadow foreign secretary, Emily Thornberry, said on Sunday that the party needed to boost its policies on combating harassment. Asked by Sky News whether she would agree that current procedures were inadequate, Thornberry said: \u201cYes, I would have thought that\u2019s right, absolutely, and we need to make sure that we\u2019re now changing. I agree with you. \u201cI hope that this awful week will result in something different and something better coming from it and a step change to the way in which we treat women, particularly young women and young men within our political process, because quite frankly what are we going to do without youngsters coming into politics?\u201d"
"9||The secular liturgy of the shipping forecastAnna Macey might be right to assert that \u201cthe main reason why such sexism is still so widespread is that no schoolgirl has ever challenged her school in court about this\u201d (Let girls wear the trousers, 3 November), but as I note in the final chapter of my book Wearing the Trousers: Fashion, Freedom and the Rise of the Modern Woman, in 1999 the mother of a 14-year-old Tyne and Wear schoolgirl successfully took her daughter\u2019s case to the Equal Opportunities Commission. Don Chapman Eynsham, Oxfordshire \u2022 You report that only about half of the UK\u2019s fixed speed cameras are on and active (4 November). I think you\u2019ll find that 52% is a clear majority expressing the settled position of being-on-ness. Get over it and start backing Britain. Carola Groom Oldham \u2022 Paula Cocozza (Give \u2019em both barrels, G2, 2 November) found Lord Wharncliffe to have four barrels to his name. He\u2019s not perhaps all that rare. Richard Drax MP is really Plunkett-Ernle-Erle-Drax. Both are outgunned by the third (and last) Duke of Buckingham and Chandos (died 1889), who had five barrels: Temple-Nugent-Brydges-Chandos-Grenville. George Baugh Shrewsbury \u2022 After reading Giles Fraser\u2019s piece about Thought for the Day (1 November) and the responses to it (Letters, 2 November), I would like to draw readers\u2019 attention to the three daily broadcasts (totalling about 18 minutes) of secular liturgy otherwise known as the shipping forecast. Steve Elliot London \u2022 Unlike Keith Flett (Letters, 1 November) the archetypal Guardian reader surely reads but rarely writes letters: eg, me. Hugh Gibbons Bracknell, Berkshire \u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com \u2022 Read more Guardian letters \u2013 click here to visit gu.com/letters"
"12||The Guardian view on sexual harassment in Westminster: no grey areas, no excusesThe Palace of Westminster is an unusual workplace. A clue is in the name: it is the apex of a power structure. By definition, few enjoy the privilege of serving there. MPs are effectively self-employed. Their staff are doubly vulnerable when it comes to protection from harassment and bullying. First, there is no independent authority, short of the police, to receive complaints. (Yet there are many workplace offences that require disciplinary action, while falling short of the threshold for criminal prosecution.) Second, the culture of political recruitment, with its huge premium on ideological and personal loyalty, militates against disclosure. This vastly inflates the power that a political employer or mentor wields over juniors. And when it comes to sexual harassment, power is everything. The abuser owns a kind of currency that he uses either in a forced trade for sexual gratification or, with sex as the proxy, as a way of asserting control. It is beyond dispute that British politics has a profound problem in this area. Few \u2013 if any \u2013 women working in politics needed the disclosures of the past week to prove the point. By contrast, the emergence of first-hand testimony has done little to elicit introspection or contrition from the men who have mostly been running the system. Among the uglier spectacles of recent days has been the defensive argument that a cultural coup is being enacted by feminists, with men as the victims. In this grotesquely warped analysis, the engine of scandal is a misunderstanding: male politicians with outmoded social habits are being tested against vague standards of behaviour and pursued for actions where culpability is mysterious, subjective or politically motivated. That is abject, dishonest nonsense. The differences between flirtation, professional interaction and harassment are vast and easy to comprehend to anyone who respects co-workers as fellow human beings. So too is the distinction between consent and its absence. These lines have never been blurred except in the minds of men who wanted them to be blurred in the past, and regret that the focus is sharpening now. The structures of politics bring a particular dimension to the problem, but the problems itself is far from particular to politics. Research by the TUC has found endemic sexual harassment in British workplaces. More than half of women surveyed said they had experienced some kind of unwanted, inappropriate behaviour. One in eight reported physical intrusion such as forced attempts to kiss or the touching of breasts, genitals, buttocks. Sexual harassment \u2013 unwanted behaviour of a sexual kind that violates a person\u2019s dignity \u2013 is, under the 2010 Equality Act, a form of unlawful discrimination. And unwanted touching can constitute sexual assault in law \u2013 a detail that certain politicians who belittle a roving hand or lascivious lunge as some minor peccadillo should bear in mind. No industry or profession is immune. Nor can any political party or faction claim moral high ground. There are men who will abuse their power over staff and activists on the right, left and centre of politics. The impulse to cover up, to protect allies and to deflect criticism with partisan counter-allegation is also common to all parties. There is a great danger now that the focus on holding perpetrators to account and putting effective protections in place is lost amid tribal (male-dominated) political combat and score-settling. There is also a danger that the whole episode is cast as the latest chapter in the exposure of politics as some especially corrupt profession. In fact, parliament\u2019s inadequacies in this instance are sadly representative of a wider social condition. But politics can at least aspire to lead a cultural change. This might not happen quickly but it can begin immediately, with the establishment of a robust body to hear and investigate complaints in confidence, separate from party structures. It can also be accelerated by a shift in attitude and tone from male cohorts at Westminster. Too many of them still see women\u2019s equality and safety as an optional interest, a second-tier category of politics, a distraction \u2013 one for the ladies, while the chaps attend to \u201creal\u201d issues. Much of Westminster reeks of that stultifying culture of male supremacy, like a club that admitted women only with ambivalence, keeping a residue of fond remembrance for the days when they were excluded. Parliament\u2019s uniqueness lies not in that affliction but in possessing the power to lead by example and be a beacon of change for the whole country."
"12||The Guardian view on translation: an interpretative and creative actTranslation is always an interpretation: an act of creation that also, paradoxically, demands a fierce loyalty to the original text. We must cherish our translators for these shy acts of creation, these loyal betrayals. (To translate is to betray, the saying goes, itself a translation of the Italian traduttore traditore.) Translators are our guides into other times and territories. They encourage us to leave our own literary shores and to consider other ways of living, other ways of thinking. They can usher into our midst other means of expression, other forms. The literature of one place, of one language, may be reshaped by confrontations with texts from elsewhere. The Aeneid, the most Roman of Roman poems, could not have existed without the Greek Iliad and Odyssey. The sonnet was a southern European form brought to England through Thomas Wyatt\u2019s translations of Petrarch. In English, there have been at least 60 prominent translations of Homer\u2019s Odyssey, all of them by men. Now comes the first published version by a woman: Emily Wilson, professor of classics at the University of Pennsylvania. (This in itself is a curious anomaly: Anne Dacier\u2019s French version was published in 1708. In Italian, until recently the best-read translator of Homer\u2019s epics, familiar to generations of schoolchildren, was Rosa Calzecchi Onesti, who died in 2011.) Translations inevitably bring with them the perspectives and biases of their creators, and Wilson proffers a version that scrapes away the barnacle layers of centuries of masculine readings of the poem. Here is one example. In book four of the poem Telemachus, Odysseus\u2019s son, goes off in search of news of his long-absent father. He reaches Sparta, where he meets Helen, restored to her marital home after the Trojan war. Remembering the start of the conflict, she says: \u201cThe Achaeans came to Troy on account of dog-eyed me, contemplating ferocious war.\u201d But what is the force of this curious word kunopis, \u201cdog-eyed\u201d? A standard lexicon translates it as \u201clost to all decency, shameless\u201d. George Chapman, tackling the passage in the 17th century, referred to \u201cimpudency\u201d. At the turn of the 20th century, Samuel Butler offered \u201cmy most shameless self\u201d. (He had earlier argued that the true author of the Odyssey was a woman, on account of the poem\u2019s sympathetic female characters and its inability to describe boats accurately.) In the 1990s, Robert Fagles chose to use the phrase \u201cshameless whore that I am\u201d. And Wilson? She takes the line like this: \u201cThey made my face the cause that hounded them.\u201d Wilson, a considerable scholar of Greek, has turned the received wisdom about the interpretation of a poetic line inside out. And that\u2019s a good thing \u2013 just as it was a good thing when, 30 years ago, Martin Bernal, the author of Black Athena, swept into the world of classical scholarship with his provocative thesis on the African origins of Greek culture that \u2013 notwithstanding the controversy surrounding his claims \u2013 had the effect of forcing scholars to recognise the limitations of reading the ancient world from the confines of a white, male, Eurocentric perspective. The joy of Homer is precisely the generosity and suppleness of the material, the fact that it resists being read in a single way. That\u2019s why a new kind of guide through his wild landscapes, across his wine-dark seas, is to be welcomed."
"0||Chelsea 1-0 Manchester United: Premier League \u2013 as it happenedAntonio Conte is wandering around the pitch, celebrating with his players, bumping chests with them, slapping hands, pumping his fists, saluting the crowd. What a win for the Italian, who was feeling the heat after a tough week. Chelsea deserved this. They were miles ahead of Manchester United today and could have won by more than one goal. In the end, though, Alvaro Morata\u2019s splendid second-half header was enough for the champions to stay nine points behind Manchester City. United, meanwhile, are eight points behind the Premier League leaders after another appalling performance away to a big side under Jose Mourinho, who was woefully short of ideas today. Thanks for reading and emailing. Bye. It\u2019s all over! Chelsea have beaten Jose Mourinho again at Stamford Bridge. 90 min+5: Rashford\u2019s corner is deep. Chelsea struggle to clear. But they do, and... 90 min+4: Rashford\u2019s free-kick flicks off the wall and flies inches over the angle of post and bar! Corner to United! 90 min+3: Another United attack breaks down and Chelsea counter, Willian knocking a pass through to Morata, who falls over his own feet. Wow. Back come United, going long, and Chelsea concede a free-kick 25 yards from goal! 90 min+2: HIT MAROUANE. 90 min+1: Fellaini was screaming for a penalty, too, after challenging for a cross with Cahill. He felt the Chelsea defender was holding him. Anthony Taylor was unmoved. 90 min: Bailly whacks a long, straight ball into the United area. Fellaini velcros the ball down with his chest after a misjudgement from Christensen, but he scuffs his shot and Courtois manages to push it away! United finally threaten! They\u2019ll have four more minutes to save themselves here! Chelsea, understandably after the week they\u2019ve had, are nervous now. 88 min: Chelsea have pulled back now. Conte is on the touchline, bellowing instructions. United, you fancy, want to load the box. In it comes. The ball\u2019s headed on, but Courtois is commanding enough. 87 min: United start to pump the ball into the Chelsea area. Fellaini can\u2019t reach a high cross, but Valencia keeps it in on the right. His cross is only headed as far Rashford, 18 yards out, and his shot whistles inches wide of the right post. Courtois was motionless. Willian replaces Hazard, who, like Fabregas, was excellent. 85 min: Chelsea have lost a bit of fluency since Fabregas\u2019s withdrawal. They\u2019re still looking comfortable, though. Willian is getting ready to come on. 84 min: Rashford\u2019s deep cross has too much oomph on it and the ball evades Fellaini at the far post. 82 min: The free-kick\u2019s sent high into the United box. It bounces down to Cahill, whose tame shot rolls through to De Gea. United probably need to get into Chelsea\u2019s half if they\u2019re going to score. Fellaini sprays a pass out for a throw. 81 min: Herrera, already booked for a foul on Hazard, bumps into the back of Hazard. United have been execrable in the second half. 80 min: Rudiger\u2019s bending cross deceives everyone, including De Gea, but the ball drifts past the far post. Meanwhile Dominic Calvert-Lewin has made it Everton 2-2 Watford. 79 min: Danny Drinkwater replaces the magnificent Cesc Fabregas. 78 min: United make their final change, Jesse Lingard on for Ashley Young. 77 min: United\u2019s attempts to find an equaliser have been risible so far. Chelsea still look likelier to score a second. As long as the hosts let it stay at 1-0, though, United have hope of snatching a goal. They have enough quality on the pitch. 76 min: Another chance for Chelsea to wrap up the points comes and goes, Hazard skittering through the middle, ignoring Morata to his right and trying to catch out De Gea with a bending shot. The Spaniard plunges to his right to save. 75 min: Fellaini, who has been a clown since coming on, dawdles in possession, failing to realise that Bakayoko was up his back. The Chelsea midfielder steals the ball off him and surges towards goal, only to shoot wide from 18 yards. 74 min: Oumar Niasse has hauled Everton back into it at Goodison Park, where Watford lead 2-1. 73 min: It\u2019s not over yet, but my simple analysis is this: what a difference N\u2019Golo Kante makes. 72 min: Fellaini\u2019s booked for jabbing an elbow in Morata\u2019s jaw. The oaf. 71 min: A corner to United on the left. Rashford can\u2019t beat the first man, but Morata\u2019s clearance goes behind. He gets another opportunity. This one\u2019s better, but Fellaini fouls Courtois. \u201cAs a member of the \u201cbiased\u201d media, should this result hold, could you give us some inside perspective on where the crisis baton will be passed next?\u201d says Byron Adu-Boakye. You\u2019ve seen the Everton score, right? 70 min: Christian Kabasele has made it Everton 0-2 Watford. Oh dear. 69 min: The corner\u2019s cleared as far as Herrera, who volleys wide from 20 yards. 68 min: Fellaini makes a nuisance of himself on the edge of the area and the ball comes to Rashford, whose shot\u2019s deflected wide. 67 min: Hazard dribbles down the right and feeds Bakayoko, who knocks a cross straight at De Gea. 66 min: Antonio Rudiger replaces Davide Zappacosta. Cesar Azpilicueta moves to right wing-back. 65 min: Busquets Fellaini, looking to calm things down on the edge of the United area, coolly overruns the ball and loses it to Fabregas, whose slide tackle diverts possession to Morata on the right. However he gets himself in a muddle. 62 min: United make that double change, Anthony Martial and Marouane Fellaini replacing Henrikh Mkhitaryan and Phil Jones. United have reverted to a back four. 61 min: Morata pressures Bailly into conceding a corner on the left. Chelsea have been excellent. The corner comes to nothing, though. 60 min: Mourinho is going to bring on Martial and Fellaini soon. 59 min: Lukaku tries to barrel into the area from the left, but Christensen isn\u2019t fazed, calmly getting his body in the way of the United striker and letting the ball run out for a goal-kick. Chelsea haven\u2019t missed David Luiz so far. Christensen does look like a very fine prospect. 58 min: That, by the way, was Morata\u2019s first goal since the win over Atletico Madrid on 27 September. He\u2019d gone six games without finding the back of the net. 57 min: On a booking, Jones trips Morata near halfway. The home fans howl for a second yellow. It would have been harsh. It\u2019s easy, though, to see a United player getting himself sent off here. 56 min: Mourinho is jotting some thoughts down on his notepad. He won\u2019t have failed to notice how his team is being outplayed and outnumbered in midfield. Will he bring on Fellaini? On Sky, Gary Neville has been hammering Henrikh Mkhitaryan\u2019s contribution. This is magnificent! With Manchester United all over the place, Cesar Azpilicueta romps down the inside right channel, no one bothering to engage him. United\u2019s midfield has totally disappeared. Azpilicueta curls a delightful ball into the box. Bakayoko\u2019s run from left to right pulls Smalling out of the middle, leaving Morata all alone, Bailly nowhere near him. Morata still has a lot to do, around 12 yards from goal, but he plants a stunning header into the top left corner, De Gea rooted to the spot! 54 min: Fabregas dinks a cross into the middle from the left. The unmarked Hazard swipes goalwards from 15 yards, without taking a touch to control, but he shoots straight at De Gea! Another chance goes begging. 53 min: United are looking ragged here. \u201cI\u2019ve been keeping an eye on the game at Everton and can report that Everton\u2019s form has made no improvement,\u201d says JR in Illinois. \u201cThey look like they\u2019re being controlled by an 8 year old on a Playstation. They have just gone down 0-1 to Watford after a Richarlison goal.\u201d 51 min: Fabregas\u2019s free-kick is an underhit disappointment. It\u2019s not long, though, before Herrera reacquaints himself with Hazard, cynically tripping the Belgian. Herrera, remember, was sent off for his treatment of Hazard in the FA Cup last season. He\u2019s booked for this one. This is pathetic from United, who have received three yellow cards for fouls on Hazard since the start of the second half. 50 min: It\u2019s Matic\u2019s turn to foul Hazard, this time on the right. 49 min: Bakayoko scoops a pass on to the chest of Morata, who turns and volleys wide from 20 yards. Moments later Jones wildly chops Hazard down in the middle. He\u2019s booked. 46 min: Chelsea get the second half underway. Both sides are unchanged. United make a positive start to the second half, Rashford spinning down the left. Azpilicueta\u2019s across to shepherd the ball out of play, though, so Anthony Taylor awards a corner. It\u2019s a poor decision, so he makes up for it by spotting some United pushing in the middle. It\u2019s goalless, but it\u2019s good. Chelsea have had the better of it, though, and the sight of Tiemoue Bakayoko walking off with his head in his hands shows how disappointed he still is about that early miss. 44 min: Valencia barges Hazard over on the left. Conte\u2019s furious. Anthony Taylor has to calm him down. 43 min: This has been a strong performance from Chelsea so far. They look to be playing for Conte. 40 min: Fabregas whips the corner in and Christensen escapes Herrera, only to shoulder the ball over the bar from six yards! Chelsea have spurned a couple of great opportunities. 39 min: Bailly turns Alonso\u2019s low cross behind for a corner on the left. 38 min: Some of the early zip has disappeared from the match. I suspect Mourinho wasn\u2019t too happy with how open it was in the first 20 minutes. United have taken a step back and looked to tighten up. 36 min: Morata\u2019s right sleeve is torn. That is all. 34 min: Fabregas lobs a pass into the area. Morata falls over because someone was near him. 32 min: Fabregas threads a pass through to Morata on the left, but the striker\u2019s lacking belief and his tame low shot doesn\u2019t trouble De Gea. 31 min: After some minor intrigue, the ball comes through to Courtois. Mourinho leaves his seat for a bit and has a wander round the technical area before sitting down again. More when we have more. 30 min: Chelsea defend well against Lukaku on the right, crowding him out with impressive intensity, but Alonso proceeds to send a clearance straight to Herrera. His shot\u2019s blocked, but United win a coner. 27 min: A lull. But Chelsea are beginning to enjoy a lot of possession. 25 min: Morata shimmies away from Smalling on the right, too easily for Mourinho\u2019s liking, but his cutback doesn\u2019t reach Fabregas. Moments later Fabregas swings a cross into the area, but Bailly\u2019s nudge on Morata steers the Chelsea striker away from the ball. 22 min: Rashford\u2019s deep free-kick interests Matic, who would love a goal today, but Courtois gathers without too much of an argument. 21 min: Now Kante slides in late on Mkhitaryan, banging the United midfielder on the knee. He escapes with a caution. 20 min: Bakayoko plays a one-two with Morata before clattering into Jones on the edge of the area, unable to halt his momentum. Jones felt that one. He stays down for a while. Yellow for Bakayoko. 19 min: The corner\u2019s taken short. Hazard engages a couple of United defenders, waits for them to commit themselves and scoots inside past Valencia. The ball\u2019s on his left foot and he smashes a rising drive towards the top right corner from 20 yards. De Gea pushes it into the air and the ball spins to the right. The goal\u2019s gaping, but the angle\u2019s tight for Fabregas, who sends a downward header into the side netting. Some Chelsea fans think it\u2019s in, but it\u2019s an illusion. What a smashing game this is, though. Vintage Mourinho. 18 min: Morata, falling over, somehow conjures an absurd volleyed back flick out to Hazard on the right. The Belgian dinks inside before finding Bakayoko, who has another shot blocked. Then Zappacosta wins a corner on the right. 16 min: Lukaku has been quiet so far, but here he is. The striker powers away from his Christensen, rolling him too easily, and lets fly from 20 yards. Courtois is equal to the bending shot, though, diving to his right to push the ball to safety. 14 min: You wonder if Manchester City\u2019s victory has increased the pressure on both teams to win here, forcing them to play more expansively. This entertaining start is highly welcome. \u201cIs Morata channeling Diego Costa or what? He\u2019s looking pretty frisky out there,\u201d says JR in Illinois. \u201cThe list of things that get me to root for Chelsea is very short but when the opposing manager is Jose Mourinho that is reason #1.\u201d 13 min: Bakayoko surges into more open green and shoots from 20 yards. A deflection takes the ball spinning wide. De Gea punches Fabregas\u2019s corner away. 12 min: This game is bewilderingly open. United are struggling at the back. A long ball down the right finds Zappacosta in acres of space. His bouncing low centre finds Morata and when the ball runs away from the striker, Smalling exerting enough pressure, it comes to Bakayoko, who looks certain to score. Instead he leans back and wafts high and wide from close range! What a miss! 8 min: Young makes inroads down the left again. This time he checks back on to his right foot and hangs a curling cross to the far post, where Rashford is unmarked, Chelsea\u2019s defence dozing off. Courtois does enough to put him off with a star jump, though, and Rashford, his eyes closed, heads over. He probably should have scored. Still, what an open start from United. Take that, specialists! 7 min: Alonso swings a teasing ball into the United box from the left. Phil Jones is in a vintage Phil Jones-esque position, making it difficult for him to clear, and the defender ends up slamming the ball past De Gea and into the United net. Luckily for him, Anthony Taylor has spotted a slight nudge in the back from Morata and rules out the goal. 6 min: \u201cEthan Ampadu over David Luiz?\u201d says Justin Kavanagh. \u201cThat\u2019s no big mystery, Jacob: Conte prefers a trendy hairdo and Luiz is losing his mofro.\u201d 5 min: The camera picks out David Luiz in the seats behind the Chelsea dugout. The Brazilian is heavily wrapped up. 4 min: Young runs at Zappacosta on the left. He reaches the byline, but the Italian concedes a corner, which comes to nothing. 2 min: Smalling goes in late on Morata on the left, conceding a free-kick. United were already a goal down by this point last season. The current state of affairs already represents improvement. Fabregas stands over the free-kick, though. Up trot the big men. But Fabregas decides to roll a pass across the Kante, the matchwinner in the FA Cup last season, and the returning midfielder tests De Gea\u2019s reactions with a shot from 25 yards. De Gea dives to his left to save. Peep! Manchester United kick off in red shirts and white shorts, attacking the Matthew Harding Stand in the first half. A roar greets the first whistle. Chelsea are, of course, in blue. Before play, a minute\u2019s silence in honour of remembrance. The players huddle in the middle, the crowd falls silent. Then, applause. Here come the teams, marching out to the Liquidator. Jose Mourinho, smiling, warmly greets a few Chelsea players. He\u2019s all sweetness and light. That mood\u2019s bound to last! Try as I might, I\u2019m struggling to see the tactical reasoning behind Ethan Ampadu being picked over David Luiz. Ethan Ampadu! David Luiz! A 17-year-old with one senior appearance to his name! Versus a 30-year-old Brazilian international and former European champion! Perhaps one of you can enlighten me. Jose Mourinho is asked about Chelsea\u2019s problems. \u201cThis is what happens in big clubs when you have one bad result. It is always big. Big clubs are used to it and they know how to react and that is what we did when we lost to Huddersfield. You have to respect big players, individual players and top opponents. I will be very happy if Chelsea doesn\u2019t care about Lukaku, Marcus Rashford, Mkhitaryan, I will be very happy. We are going to try to win the match, but Hazard, Morata, Batshuayi, Willian, if we don\u2019t respect these players we will be in trouble.\u201d Antonio Conte is asked about the reasoning behind David Luiz\u2019s exclusion from the squad. \u201cNothing. It is a tactical decision. A tactical decision. Christensen is in good form and we have Ampadu, who is a good player. The club likes to bring in a young player. I think Manchester United is a really good team and they want to try to win, like us.\u201d Manchester City have beaten Arsenal 3-1 thanks to goals from Kevin de Bruyne, Sergio Aguero and Gabriel Jesus. It\u2019s a win that means that Manchester United are eight points behind the league leaders at kick-off. I doubt it will change whatever plan Mourinho has up his sleeve, but it\u2019s a gap that heightens the pressure on United in west London. Chelsea, meanwhile, are 12 points behind City. Pre-match reading No David Luiz for Chelsea. At all. Sky are saying that he\u2019s been dropped, although the Brazilian did have strapping on his right leg after the Roma defeat. One to watch. For the time being, though, the focus is on Conte\u2019s starting 11. Andreas Christensen comes into the back three, Davide Zappacosta replaces Antonio Rudiger and N\u2019Golo Kante, fit again after a hamstring injury, replaces Pedro. Manchester United are unchanged from the win over Tottenham , which means they line up in a 9-0-1 formation . There are goals in that side, even though Paul Pogba and Juan Mata are missing. Please alert the authorities if you\u2019ve seen Victor Lindelof. Chelsea: Courtois; Azpilicueta, Christensen, Cahill; Zappacosta, Bakayoko, Kante, Fabregas, Alonso; Hazard; Morata. Subs: Caballero, Rudiger, Ampadu, Drinkwater, Willian, Pedro, Batshuayi. Manchester United: De Gea; Jones, Smalling, Bailly; Valencia, Matic, Herrera, Young; Mkhitaryan, Lukaku, Rashford. Subs: Romero, Blind, Darmian, Fellaini, McTominay, Lingard, Martial. Referee: Anthony Taylor. Hello and welcome to live coverage of Antonio Conte, 48, versus Jose Mourinho, 54. You might have heard that these two don\u2019t like each other very much and, after the Mourinho digs and subtle hair-related references, it\u2019s all set up for them to take their touchline feud to a new level at Stamford Bridge this afternoon. That, after all, is what we\u2019re here for, right? The chance to see two grown men squaring up to each other, only for the fourth official to tell them it ain\u2019t worth it, is the stuff of dreams. It\u2019s what you want to see when Chelsea and Manchester United lock horns. Forget about the football, we\u2019re all here for the mind games. Of course, the focus on the sour relationship between Conte and Mourinho is to be expected. Firstly, and most obviously, because it turns out that Mourinho used to sit in Conte\u2019s seat, but also because of the strong possibility that the bitter air in the dugouts may well be more interesting than anything happening on the pitch. This is a fine opportunity for United to earn their first win at the Bridge since a controversial 3-2 victory in October 2012. Chelsea are feeling sore after their midweek collapse in Rome, the pressure on Conte is growing, Roman Abramovich is snooping around the training ground and the champions are defending poorly, conceding 10 goals in their last six games. United, meanwhile, are strong at the back and have enviable options in attack. Given that Roma scored three at Stamford Bridge and Watford scored two, this assignment ought to have no fears for United. But we all know how Mourinho likes to set up in these big games, especially on the road. Now, when the defensive approach comes off, as it did against Tottenham last week, Mourinho looks like the genius that he unmistakably is. It\u2019s worth pointing out that there\u2019s absolutely nothing wrong with focusing on solidity, especially in an age when good defending seems like a minor priority for a lot of teams. At the same time, however, the limitations of Mourinho\u2019s restrictive mindset were sorely evident in that goalless draw at Anfield last month, when United\u2019s decision to wait for Liverpool\u2019s mistakes meant that they didn\u2019t do enough to test a defence that conceded five against Manchester City, four against Tottenham and one against West Ham. A point at Anfield is nothing to be sniffy about, of course, and some of the analysis of United\u2019s recent games has left Mourinho seething, mocking the specialists and the poets and the dreamers, even picking fights with his own fans. It\u2019s so unfair! The problem, though, is that a point isn\u2019t necessarily enough when City are setting such a terrifying pace at the top, while Mourinho\u2019s cause is hardly helped by his recent record away to his rivals: two 0-0s at Liverpool, one at City, a 2-1 defeat at Spurs, a 2-0 defeat at Arsenal and, most galling of all, a 4-0 defeat at Chelsea last year. How Mourinho would love to gain revenge for that humbling by his old side, who also knocked United out of the FA Cup last season. But the memory of that game might inform his plan here, while it might also provide Chelsea with some encouragement and remind them that they are actually pretty good at football. Chelsea, remember, were last season\u2019s runaway champions. As usual, their title defence has been pretty underwhelming so far. They\u2019ve been derailed by injuries, suspensions and a disappointing transfer window, and there\u2019s a growing sense that Conte isn\u2019t long for this job. This, however, is a chance for them to regain their mojo, for Eden Hazard to rediscover that glorious strut, for Alvaro Morata to find his shooting boots. Forget about Rome, Chelsea are bound to be up for this one, against the manager who had to be fired because of something called \u201cpalpable discord\u201d. That\u2019s one way of setting this up. Another is that the delight Mourinho would take in showing Conte, Abramovich and everyone else inside Stamford Bridge just how special he still is. Kick-off: 4.30pm."
"7||'Today says everything about New York': marathon runners reject terror threatIf the intention of the New York truck attacker was to instill terror in the hearts and minds of ordinary people, he got his answer on Sunday when 50,000 runners took part in the city\u2019s marathon, cheered on by more than two million undeterred supporters. In perfect running conditions of grey sky and a mild chill, New York came out in force to celebrate the universal art of running. From the starting block under the Verrazano-Narrows bridge in Staten Island, through Brooklyn and the Bronx to Central Park where the race snaked to a finish, crowds clanged cowbells and called out encouragement to the participants from 125 countries. \u201cIt\u2019s been a bad week, they tried to mess with the best day of my year,\u201d said Jeannie O\u2019Toole, 46, a double Marathon runner who was a spectator this time on 4th Avenue in Brooklyn. \u201cBut they failed. Today says everything about New York \u2013 we\u2019re out here to support everyone, complete strangers, all as one.\u201d City and state had pledged to double or even triple the security presence, mindful in the wake of the truck attack on Tuesday that claimed eight lives and the 2013 Boston marathon bombing that the event could make a tempting terrorist target. But in the end the policing was muted and low-key, with none of the promised rooftop snipers and K-9 teams visible in Brooklyn. \u201cWe\u2019re not giving in to the terrorists, we\u2019re going on about our business,\u201d Mayor Bill de Blasio said before the race began. \u201cThis is the worst nightmare for terrorists \u2013 people from all nations running together, everyone together in a common cause. It\u2019s a beautiful thing.\u201d The elite contests were won by Shalane Flanagan, the first American woman to win the race in 40 years, in 2:26:53, and Geoffrey Kamworor of Kenya in 2:10:53. But the professional race was just a small part of it. As the line of participants thickened with the arrival of the rank-and-file runners, the cheering and cowbell clanging only grew louder. The placards came out too. None mentioned the truck attack overtly, but several carried a note of defiance. \u201cRun Fast and Take Chances,\u201d one placard said. \u201cNew York is with you,\u201d said another. \u201c#Fuckyeah\u201d was a third. On top of the signs were the costumes. Eve Rickles-Young and Andrea Gaither, both 28, turned out in Tiger onesies to support their three friends in the race. They said that despite the events of this week they remained determined to yell a lot and make their friends laugh as they passed by. \u201cYou just kind of got to go on, get on with it,\u201d Gaither said. Among the runners was Kathrine Switzer, now 70, who last participated in 1974 when she won the contest. She was also memorably the first woman to be allowed to compete in the Boston marathon, prompting a chauvinist race official to try to drag her off the course screaming: \u201cGet the hell out of my race!\u201d Switzer told ABC7 it was great to be back after 42 years and urged people to become pioneers too. \u201cI encourage everyone to keep on going, keep talking to each other, keep working to make the world a better place,\u201d she said."
"11||British woman held in Egypt for carrying painkillers 'made mistake'The brother of the British woman detained in Egypt for bringing nearly 300 tramadol pills into the country has said that it was \u201can innocent, honest mistake\u201d. Laura Plummer, 33, was arrested after 290 tramadol tablets and some naproxen for her Egyptian husband\u2019s sore back were found in her suitcase. As a result, she was detained at Hurghada international airport on the Red Sea coast on suspicion of trafficking drugs on 9 October. Plummer has been told she may face up to 25 years in jail, or even the death penalty. She is due back in court on Thursday, for her third hearing James Plummer, Laura\u2019s brother, said his sister had been given the prescription drugs by a colleague at the shop in Hull she works in, after she\u2019d told her about her husband\u2019s pain. \u201cSo she took those over with her,\u201d Mr Plummer said. \u201cLaura didn\u2019t even check what they were, she didn\u2019t even know there was tramadol in the bag. There was also naproxen as well.\u201d Her local MP, Karl Turner, for Kingston upon Hull, has said that the Foreign Office are involved and that the British embassy in Cairo has provided her with a lawyer, following reports that her father had spent \u00a310,000 on her legal fees. Plummer was visiting her husband of 18 months on what her brother called \u201ca routine holiday\u201d. She visits him two to four times a year, although it is not clear if their marriage is official. \u201cIt is difficult to get certain things in Egypt apparently so she\u2019d taken talcum powder, shaving gel and razor blades and all sorts of things,\u201d he said. \u201cClearly, [she was] very, very naive.\u201d Tramadol is the most abused drug in Egypt, according to a minister. The synthetic opioid is only available on prescription but is often obtained illegally and used as a heroin substitute, as it is elsewhere in the world. Egypt\u2019s drug control fund, which has a free helpline, received more calls about tramadol than any other drug in August, according to Ghada Wali, the minister for social solidarity. It also received 48,000 calls between January and June for issues regarding the drug, which is only available on prescription in the UK. The scale of the problem in Egypt may well be the root cause of the strident action taken by authorities. Plummer has been living in a cramped cell with 25 other women for almost a month, since she was detained. Turner said: \u201cThe family describe Laura to me as somebody who is very naive. Her father said to me, \u2018look, the truth is she wouldn\u2019t know tramadol from a Panadol. She wouldn\u2019t have a clue that she was doing something unlawful\u2019.\u201d A British embassy representative has been regularly visiting Plummer and has been communicating with her family. \u201cHer family said to some extent it is better that she\u2019s with lots of people in a cell than in a cell on her own because people are around her,\u201d said Turner. \u201cBut the conditions are going to be extremely basic and I\u2019m sure she\u2019s petrified by what is unfolding before her.\u201d"
"7||Donald Trump warns 'dictators' as Japan visit launches Asia tourDonald Trump has begun a tour of Asia with a warning that \u201cno dictator\u201d should underestimate America, in a thinly veiled reference to the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un. \u201cNo one, no dictator, no regime \u2026 should underestimate American resolve,\u201d Trump told cheering servicemen and women after he landed at Yokota airbase near Tokyo on Sunday on the first leg of his five-nation trip. \u201cYou are the greatest threat to tyrants and dictators who seek to prey on the innocent,\u201d he said, adding that authoritarian regimes could also take the route \u201ctowards prosperity and peace\u201d. \u201cNo nation should ever underestimate American resolve,\u201d said Trump, who did not refer to North Korea by name. \u201cEvery once a while in the past they underestimated us. It was not pleasant for them, was it? We will never yield, never waver and never falter in defence of our people, our freedom and our great American flag.\u201d North Korea marked Trump\u2019s arrival in Japan by warning the \u201cspiritually unstable\u201d president not to make \u201creckless remarks\u201d about the regime in Pyongyang. The Rodong Sinmun, the newspaper of the ruling Workers\u2019 party, claimed that US voters were pushing for Trump\u2019s impeachment out of fear he will bring \u201cnuclear disaster\u201d to the US mainland. The newspaper cited the Republican senator Bob Corker, who recently accused Trump of backing the US into a corner over North Korea by telling the secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, that he was \u201cwasting his time\u201d trying to negotiate with Pyongyang. \u201cIf the US misjudges [North Korea\u2019s] toughest will and dares to act recklessly, the latter will be compelled to deal a resolute and merciless punishment upon the former with the mobilisation of all forces,\u201d the paper said in a commentary run by the official KCNA news agency. In what many believe is a low-risk start to a 12-day visit that will include stops in South Korea, China, Vietnam and the Philippines, Trump praised US servicemen and women and their counterparts from Japan, a \u201ctreasured partner and crucial ally\u201d. Trump later flew by helicopter to a private golf club north of Tokyo for an informal lunch of hamburgers \u2013 reportedly made with US beef \u2013 with the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe. The two signed white caps bearing the message: \u201cDonald and Shinzo Make Alliance Even Greater.\u201d The leaders were joined by the Japanese golfer Hideki Matsuyama and later played nine holes at Kasumigaseki country club, which only recently allowed women to become full members. Trump, who reportedly bonded with Abe over a game of golf at his estate in Florida earlier this year, was heard describing the course as \u201cbeautiful\u201d. The US president described Matsuyama as a \u201clong ball-hitter\u201d but added: \u201cI hit the ball pretty long.\u201d He did, though, concede that the Japanese player was likely to out-distance him at the tee-off. \u201cIf I come back and say I was longer than him, don\u2019t believe it,\u201d Trump told reporters on his way to Japan. Abe tweeted that he was having a \u201cspirited conversation\u201d on the course with his \u201cmarvelous friend\u201d, while Trump posted a short video clip of himself on the fairway. White House officials said none of the players had kept score. Earlier, in another remark apparently directed at Pyongyang, Trump said US forces \u201calways, always win. This is the heritage of the US armed forces, the greatest force for freedom and justice that the world has ever known.\u201d Abe is expected to seek assurances from Trump of Washington\u2019s watertight commitment to security in a volatile Asia-Pacific region. North Korea has launched two ballistic missiles over northern Japan in recent months, and has threatened to conduct a hydrogen bomb test in the Pacific Ocean to demonstrate it has developed the means to threaten the US mainland with nuclear weapons. Trump said the US-Japan alliance had been the cornerstone of regional security for the past six decades, adding: \u201cWe dominate the sky, we dominate the sea, we dominate the land and space.\u201d In what appeared to be a break with his prepared script, Trump promised the assembled troops that they would be receiving \u201ca lot more\u201d defence equipment. \u201cNo one makes it like they make it in the US. A lot of stuff is coming \u2013 use it well.\u201d In September, he said he would also allow Japan and South Korea to buy \u201chighly sophisticated\u201d US military equipment to counter the North Korean threat. Trump and Abe were to attend a private dinner, complete with a performance of the Japanese viral hit Pen-Pineapple-Apple-Pen. On Monday, Trump, accompanied by the first lady, Melania, will meet Japan\u2019s emperor and empress. Later he will hold talks with Abe and meet relatives of Japanese citizens who were abducted by North Korean spies during the cold war. Japan is the least testing stop on Trump\u2019s trip, the longest Asian tour by any US president since George Bush in 1992. Abe has consistently backed the president\u2019s tough stance on North Korea \u2013 support that Trump lauded in his address. \u201cJapan is a treasured partner and crucial ally of the United States and today we thank them for welcoming us and for decades of wonderful friendship between our two nations,\u201d he said, after swapping his suit jacket for a bomber jacket. \u201cOn behalf of the United States of America, I send the warmest wishes of the America people to the citizens of this remarkable country.\u201d But he can expect a more cautious welcome from the South Korean president, Moon Jae-in, when he arrives in Seoul on Tuesday. Trump\u2019s bellicose rhetoric targeting Kim Jong-un has unsettled Moon, a liberal who this week said no military action should be taken on the Korean peninsula without his consent. Trump defended his provocative remarks about the North Korean nuclear crisis en route to Japan from Hawaii earlier Sunday. \u201cWe want to get it solved. It\u2019s a big problem for our country and the world, and we want to get it solved,\u201d he told reporters on board Air Force One. \u201cAnd there\u2019s been 25 years of total weakness and so we\u2019re taking a very much different approach,\u201d he added, without giving details. He said he planned to meet the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, during his trip. \u201cI think it\u2019s expected that we will meet,\u201d he said. \u201cWe want Putin\u2019s help on North Korea.\u201d The tour comes at a precarious moment for Trump. A few days earlier his former campaign chairman was indicted and another adviser pleaded guilty as part of an investigation into possible collusion between his 2016 campaign and Russian officials. Jonathan Pollack, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said the trip comes \u201cat a very inopportune time for the president. He is under growing domestic vulnerabilities that we all know about, hour to hour,\u201d he said. \u201cThe conjunction of those issues leads to the palpable sense of unease about the potential crisis in Korea.\u201d"
"13||Peter Harris obituaryMy friend Peter Harris, who has died aged 50 of pancreatic cancer, was director and co-founder of Wolf and Water Arts Company. Peter was born in Worcester, the son of Muriel (nee Lerry), a primary school teacher, and Walter Harris, who worked for the Prudential and WH Smith. Peter\u2019s many childhood explorations included an expressionist approach to music \u2013 he preferred striking a guitar with knives and screwdrivers rather than playing it with his fingers. He attended Rainbow Hill primary school and Worcester Royal grammar school before studying humanities at Thames Polytechnic (now part of Greenwich University). On finishing his degree, Peter returned to Worcester, volunteering at the Worcester Arts Workshop. Offered a place with the arts group the Common Sense Project at the Beaford Arts Centre, he moved to Devon in 1989, and in 1991 set up independently, as Wolf and Water Arts Company, in Tavistock, with Philip Robinson, Steve Newton and Jess Shaw. In the Common Sense Project, Peter oversaw integrated casts of people with learning difficulties, school groups, volunteers and professionals, devising and staging community theatre. With Wolf and Water the projects diversified. With Peter directing, Wolf and Water shot a groundbreaking version of Macbeth (1995), with an integrated cast, on 16mm. Channel 4 called it \u201can extraordinary and admirably ambitious piece of work\u201d. Peter also used drama in conflict resolution in Northern Ireland and, from 2000, the western Balkans, therapeutically in prisons, and with those suffering from life-threatening illnesses and with mental health issues. A thin, spectacled figure of shorn hair and indefatigable purpose, Peter would rise early to write up the notes for the day in his spiky handwriting while smoking roll-ups and listening to strange sounds. Scruffy, uncompromising, yet always people-centred, Peter was known for his twinkly-eyed gallows humour, eliciting groans and, \u201cPeter, you\u2019re a bad man!\u201d from people who felt quite the opposite. To work with Peter was to have made an unforgettable friend. Those drawn into his orbit often found their tastes and thinking transformed. Music was a lifelong passion, whether in the band he fronted, The Temple of Photocopier Consciousness, whose signature tune was Samuel Beckett Is Dead; in the Peter Harris Experience, which Peter hosted on Phonic FM from 2008, emulating his hero John Peel, or in one of many other forms. From the early 1990s Peter lived in Great Torrington, a small Devon town he loved but regularly escaped from through the international activities of Wolf and Water, which eventually extended to Norway, India, Sweden, Iraq, Thailand, Zanzibar and elsewhere. Early this year, Peter received his cancer diagnosis. He spent his final days quietly with friends in Braunton, north Devon, watching Doctor Who and playing Dungeons and Dragons. He is survived by his cousin, Rick Glover."
"4||Russia funded Facebook and Twitter investments through Kushner investorTwo Russian state institutions with close ties to Vladimir Putin funded substantial stakes in Twitter and Facebook through an investor who later acquired an interest in a Jared Kushner venture, leaked documents reveal. The investments were made through a Russian technology magnate, Yuri Milner, who also holds a stake in a company co-owned by Kushner, Donald Trump\u2019s son-in-law and senior White House adviser. The discovery is likely to stir concerns over Russian influence in US politics and the role played by social media in last year\u2019s presidential election. It may also raise new questions for the social media companies and for Kushner. Alexander Vershbow, who was a US ambassador to Russia under George W Bush and to Nato under Bill Clinton, said the Russian state institutions were frequently used as \u201ctools for Putin\u2019s pet political projects\u201d. Vershbow said the findings were concerning in light of efforts by Moscow to disrupt US democracy and public debate. \u201cThere clearly was a wider plan, despite Putin\u2019s protestations to the contrary,\u201d he said. The investments are detailed in the Paradise Papers, a trove of millions of leaked documents reviewed by the Guardian, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) and other partners, along with other previously unreported filings. Facebook and Twitter were not made aware that funding for the investments came from the state-controlled VTB Bank and a financial arm of the state oil and gas firm Gazprom, according to Milner. The files show that in 2011, VTB funded a $191m investment in Twitter. About the same time, Gazprom Investholding financed an opaque offshore company, which in turn funded a vehicle that held $1bn-worth of Facebook shares. The money flowed through investment vehicles controlled by Milner, who in 2015 invested in a startup in New York that Kushner co-owns with his brother. Kushner initially failed to disclose his own holding in the startup, Cadre, when he joined Trump\u2019s White House. A spokesman for Kushner declined to comment. Milner once advised the Russian government on technology through a presidential commission chaired by Dmitry Medvedev, the former president and current prime minister. Now based in California\u2019s Silicon Valley, Milner has invested $7bn in more than 30 online companies including Airbnb, Spotify and the Chinese retailers Alibaba and JD.com. In a series of interviews, Milner said VTB\u2019s funding did not buy it influence at Twitter. He said he was not aware that Gazprom Investholding had backed the stake in Facebook. Milner said the deals were a small part of his overall investment portfolio and were done when US-Russia relations were better. Milner disputes that he is an associate of Kushner. He said he had invested in Kushner\u2019s business purely for commercial reasons. He said they had met only once, over cocktails in the US last year. \u201cI\u2019m not involved in any political activity. I\u2019m not funding any political activity,\u201d said Milner. The disclosure that stakes in two of the US\u2019s biggest technology companies were financed by Russian entities with links to the Kremlin comes as the covert use of their platforms by Russians aiming to boost Trump\u2019s 2016 presidential campaign is under intense scrutiny. Both VTB and Gazprom are now under US sanctions. Though Milner said the investments had no connection to the controversy, the findings are likely to add to pressure on Facebook and Twitter to give a full and transparent account of their interactions with Moscow entities before and during the US election. Vanessa Chan, a spokeswoman for Facebook, said the investment backed by Gazprom Investholding had been sold five years ago, after Facebook went public. Chan said Facebook \u201crejected the notion of a lack of due diligence\u201d being done on its investors. A Twitter spokesperson said: \u201cAs a matter of policy Twitter conducted reviews of all pre-IPO investors.\u201d The Twitter and Facebook investments were made by Milner\u2019s investment company DST Global, which was set up in 2009. At the time, Milner joined forces with the Russian oligarch Alisher Usmanov, a co-owner of Arsenal FC, who invested heavily in DST Global funds. Purchases of Facebook and Twitter were public knowledge and turned out to be lucrative. Usmanov is estimated to have made more than $1bn on his original $200m stake. Usmanov sold the last of his Facebook holdings in September 2013 and Milner said DST Global had sold all stakes in Facebook and Twitter by 2014. But the role of major state-run Russian banks in funding some stakes \u2013 including in Twitter, Trump\u2019s favourite medium \u2013 was previously unknown. Born in Soviet Moscow in 1961, Milner was named after Yuri Gagarin, who had become the first man in outer space earlier that year. Milner studied theoretical physics at Moscow State University and in 1990 moved from the Soviet Union to the US, where he attended the University of Pennsylvania\u2019s Wharton School. After a stint at the World Bank in Washington, he returned to Russia and set up Mail.ru, an email and social networking service, which became popular and profitable. In 2009, he was asked to join Medvedev\u2019s innovation commission. Milner said the role involved advising Russian ministers and officials on moving public services online. Facebook\u2019s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, was so impressed with Milner\u2019s rise that he invited the Russian to invest in Facebook. Milner\u2019s company \u201cstood out because of the global perspective they bring\u201d, Zuckerberg said when announcing their first $200m deal in 2009. \u201cI believe I had some expertise at the time that Mark found valuable,\u201d Milner said. The pair became friends and Zuckerberg attended Milner\u2019s wedding in California late in 2011. The ceremony was held at a vast mansion atop a hillside near Silicon Valley that Milner had recently bought for $100m. Milner and Zuckerberg are advisers to each other\u2019s philanthropic ventures and remain close. Associates of Milner told the Guardian that he tried to secure funding for new investments from western banks. But they turned him down, forcing him after the 2008 financial crisis to go instead to Russian institutions. His exit from Moscow followed Putin\u2019s return as president in 2012, as Russia moved in a more authoritarian direction. Milner has lived in the US with his family since 2014. Milner said that as a management company, DST Global had sole discretion over its investment decisions. He said that he, like other investment managers, did not disclose the identities of his funders to the companies where DST Global invested. He said funders such as VTB received only basic updates on investments. He briefly mentioned VTB\u2019s role in the Twitter investment during an interview with Forbes magazine last month. The partial disclosure appeared to have been prompted by questions put to him by the Guardian and other media partners. It is unclear if Moscow saw a political interest in funding stakes in Facebook and Twitter, or if the acquisitions were only intended to make money. Sources familiar with the situation told the Guardian that Facebook had carried out a discreet internal review of Russian investments before its IPO in 2012, and that the review was unable to draw firm conclusions. Karen Vartapetov, the director of sovereign ratings at Standard &amp; Poor\u2019s, said the Russian government had \u201ca strong influence on VTB\u2019s strategic and business plans\u201d even when these were not expected to be lucrative. \u201cVTB plays a very important role for government policies, including implementation of some less profitable and socially important tasks,\u201d said Vartapetov. Russia\u2019s role in exploiting Facebook and Twitter to influence the 2016 US election is an important strand of an FBI inquiry and congressional investigations. Facebook has identified 3,000 advertisements and 470 fake accounts on its network that were set up by a \u201ctroll factory\u201d in St Petersburg. Details have been passed to Congress and to the special prosecutor, Robert Mueller, who is examining alleged collusion between the Trump campaign and Moscow. VTB has a close relationship with the Kremlin and, according to analysts, has received more state subsidies than any other Russian bank. In 2009, the bank boasted that its investment banking arm was \u201cpivotal in managing the state\u2019s interests\u201d. VTB also has close ties to Putin\u2019s FSB intelligence agency. The bank\u2019s chairman, Andrey Kostin, is a former KGB foreign intelligence operative, it has been reported, who has received several state decorations from Putin. Milner denied knowing about VTB\u2019s ties to Russian intelligence. VTB funded 45% of the Twitter stake. The bank denies Kostin worked for the KGB. In an email, Milner\u2019s spokeswoman said: \u201cYuri Milner has never been an employee of the Russian government.\u201d Milner said he not spoken to Medvedev nor any other Russian minister about social media, and that he and Zuckerberg had not discussed the controversy over Russian exploitation of social media. \u201cPolitics is something I\u2019m very uninterested in,\u201d Milner told the Guardian. \u2018They operate in the shadows\u2019 The Paradise Papers help to unravel complex arrangements that led Russian state money to fund investments in the US social media companies. They involve a bewildering array of companies using similar names and acronyms, some registered offshore in places that offer secrecy about ownership. The arrangements are legal, but have led campaigners to demand more transparency. The trail begins in December 2005, when Gazprom Investholding began putting money into Kanton Services, a company registered in the British Virgin Islands. Usmanov was at the time general director of Gazprom Investholding, which the Kremlin has used to renationalise assets sold off in the 1990s. Gazprom in effect took control of Kanton in 2009 in return for $920m. In 2011, Kanton in turn took a majority stake in DST USA II, a vehicle publicly associated with Milner. By 2012, DST USA II had bought more than 50m shares in Facebook, according to filings at the US Securities and Exchange Commission, amounting to more than 3% of the social media company. Over the following months, ownership of DST USA II was transferred to an Usmanov company, which sold off $1bn worth of the shares in Facebook at a significant profit after the social network floated on the stock market. The ultimate owner of Kanton was not made clear, but the company has several ties to Usmanov. An executive who dealt with Kanton on another deal, who requested anonymity to discuss private details, said: \u201cI was led to believe this was one of Usmanov\u2019s investment companies.\u201d Milner said he knew who owned Kanton but declined to name them, citing a confidentiality agreement. He said he did not know where Usmanov and his other partners obtained funding. \u201cI had no knowledge of him using state funds to invest with us \u2013 he had enough funds already from the holdings that he owned,\u201d said Milner. Rollo Head, a spokesman for Usmanov, said in an email: \u201cTo be absolutely clear, Mr Usmanov did not borrow from or use state or quasi-state funds to make investments in Facebook.\u201d Alina Polyakova, a specialist in Russian foreign policy at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said Moscow frequently used intermediaries to ensure \u201cplausible deniability\u201d for the actions of senior officials. \u201cRussia\u2019s influence over operations \u2013 whether that be allocating funds for disinformation campaigns or providing financing to extremist movements, or others \u2013 are intentionally opaque,\u201d said Polyakova. \u201cThey operate in the shadows.\u201d The leaked documents, together with public filings, show that VTB funded another offshore investment vehicle, DST Investments 3, which was registered on the Isle of Man, a tax haven and UK crown dependency. VTB put about $191m into this vehicle, which bought 11m shares in Twitter in 2011. When Twitter was preparing to float on the stock market in 2013, the VTB-funded vehicle held a 2% stake in the company. The VTB-funded stake was sold in May 2014, according to Milner. Stock prices from that time indicate the sale would have returned more than $240m in profit. In July 2014, shortly before the US imposed sanctions on Russian entities such as VTB and Gazprom over the Kremlin\u2019s aggression in Ukraine, control of DST Investments 3 was transferred to Kanton, the same company tied to Usmanov that was used as a go-between in the Facebook deal. Milner insisted VTB had been treated like his other investors, but acknowledged it was different in one respect. \u201cVTB Bank is clearly an institution controlled by the Russian government,\u201d he said. The Russian companies denied that their funding of the investments was politically motivated. \u201cThe loans were provided for general corporate purposes,\u201d said Oleg Maksimov, a spokesman for Gazprom Investholding. A VTB spokesperson said that in 2011 the bank \u201cexecuted several deals in the high-tech industry, as we considered this field to have high potential\u201d but had since sold its stakes. Russian investor backed Kushner The disclosure of Milner\u2019s partial backing by Russian state interests may also cause difficulties for Kushner. Milner in 2015 contributed $850,000 from his family trust to a $50m investment in Cadre, a New-York-based company that Kushner co-founded in 2014 with his brother, Joshua, and a friend of theirs from Harvard. The startup, which the Kushners claim is worth $800m, is based around an online marketplace where wealthy financiers can club together to invest in properties. Cadre has attracted an estimated $133m of venture capital from backers including Peter Thiel, the controversial libertarian billionaire who co-founded PayPal and backed Trump\u2019s campaign for president in 2016. The company has already caused controversy for Kushner, after he initially failed to detail his stake in Cadre in financial disclosures to the US Office of Government Ethics. Kushner later added Cadre to revised paperwork, saying his stake in the firm was worth up to $25m. Cadre initially said in a June press release that Milner\u2019s stake in the company was held through his firm DST. A different version of the release on Cadre\u2019s website said, however, that Milner himself was the investor in Cadre. The breakdown of the $50m funding was not made public by Cadre. Milner said in an interview that he had invested in Cadre based only on the merits of the business. \u201cI just thought it was an attractive opportunity,\u201d he said. He said he knew Joshua Kushner and had met Jared Kushner once, at a conference in Aspen, Colorado, in autumn 2016. \u201cHe was very pleasant and nice, and it was sort of a cocktail-type conversation,\u201d said Milner, adding that politics was not discussed. Cadre operates from the Puck Building in the Nolita section of Manhattan. The Kushners\u2019 father, Charles, bought the building in the 1980s before being jailed for a string of crimes including 18 counts of tax evasion. The building, a red-brick Romanesque revival, was named after the 19th-century satirical magazine based there. A gilded Puck statue, wearing a top hat and tails, gazes down on staff as they arrive for work. Mueller\u2019s inquiry is believed to be reviewing Jared Kushner\u2019s finances. Kushner was questioned by US senators in July about his connections to Russia. The closed-door session followed a series of explosive reports, including that Kushner had undisclosed contacts with Sergey Kislyak, then Russia\u2019s ambassador to the US. In remarks at the White House in July, Kushner said he had \u201cnot relied on Russian funds to finance my business activities in the private sector\u201d. Kushner attended a meeting at Trump Tower in June last year at which Donald Trump Jr was expecting to receive damaging information on Hillary Clinton, their Democratic opponent, which he was told had come from the Russian government. Kushner claimed he knew nothing about the meeting\u2019s purpose before attending and left shortly after it began. He has also denied reports that following his father-in-law\u2019s election victory, he proposed setting up a secure communication channel between Trump\u2019s team and Moscow to avoid snooping by the US before Trump took office. Kislyak reportedly told his superiors in Moscow, during conversations intercepted by American intelligence, that Kushner had asked for the backchannel during a meeting at Trump Tower last December. \u2022 This article was amended on 6 November 2017 to include VTB\u2019s denial that Kostin worked for the KGB, and on 10 November 2017 to change a description of Yuri Milner\u2019s involvement with the Kushner venture, Cadre, from \u201cbusiness associate\u201d to \u201cinvestor\u201d."
"7||Donald Trump: I would sit down for talks with Kim Jong-unDonald Trump has indicated that he would be prepared to meet the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un at some point, though he said it was still \u201cfar too early\u201d for a one-to-one conversation with his adversary. Speaking at the outset of a five-nation Asia tour set to be dominated by the standoff over North Korea\u2019s nuclear programme, Trump declared himself happy to \u201csit down with anybody\u201d. \u201cI don\u2019t think it\u2019s strength or weakness, I think sitting down with people is not a bad thing,\u201d he told the journalist Sharyl Attkisson, host of the Full Measure TV show \u201cSo I would certainly be open to doing that [sitting down with Kim] but we\u2019ll see where it goes. I think we\u2019re far too early.\u201d The rare conciliatory tone contrasted with more familiar Trump bluster earlier in the weekend, when he told US troops in Japan that \u201cno dictator\u201d should underestimate America, in a thinly veiled reference to Kim. \u201cNo one, no dictator, no regime \u2026 should underestimate American resolve,\u201d Trump told cheering servicemen and women after he landed at Yokota airbase near Tokyo on Sunday on the first leg of his trip. \u201cYou are the greatest threat to tyrants and dictators who seek to prey on the innocent,\u201d he said, adding that authoritarian regimes could also take the route \u201ctowards prosperity and peace\u201d. \u201cNo nation should ever underestimate American resolve,\u201d said Trump, who did not refer to North Korea by name. \u201cEvery once a while in the past they underestimated us. It was not pleasant for them, was it? We will never yield, never waver and never falter in defence of our people, our freedom and our great American flag.\u201d North Korea marked Trump\u2019s arrival in Japan by warning the \u201cspiritually unstable\u201d president not to make \u201creckless remarks\u201d about the regime in Pyongyang. The Rodong Sinmun, the newspaper of the ruling Workers\u2019 party, claimed that US voters were pushing for Trump\u2019s impeachment out of fear he would bring \u201cnuclear disaster\u201d to the US mainland. Under Trump and Kim, Washington and Pyongyang have come closer to blows than at any time since the Korean armistice of 1953. North Korean rocket technology is now a direct threat to the US mainland and Trump has stepped up the rhetoric with no sign of following through on threats. Earlier in the weekend, the Pentagon indicated that the only way to destroy North Korea\u2019s programme would be through a ground invasion."
"14||UK's biggest rail franchise to be broken upBritain\u2019s biggest rail franchise, which includes the strike-hit Southern service, is likely to be broken up when it expires in 2021, the government has said. Passengers on Southern have experienced widespread disruption since it was incorporated into Britain\u2019s biggest rail franchise, run by Govia Thameslink Railway (GTR), in 2015. While the government has blamed Southern\u2019s problems on the long industrial dispute with train drivers and crew, an official report highlighted the merger of Southern with Thameslink and Great Northern as a contributory factor. Campaigners have called for its breakup, while Transport for London have had attempts to take over metropolitan routes rebuffed by the government. The Department for Transport said it was \u201cactively looking at the shape and size of the next Thameslink, Southern and Great Northern (TSGN) franchise on expiry of the existing contract in 2021.\u201d Further strikes by the RMT union have been called on Southern for Wednesday and Thursday this week, when action will also take place on Greater Anglia, South Western, Northern and Merseyrail in the ongoing row over the roles of guards and the use of driver-only trains. Southern said most of its services will not be directly affected by the walkout, although its trains will be busier because of the strike action taking place on the same dates on the neighbouring South-Western network, where 700 trains will be cancelled due to the strike. Despite the widespread RMT action, train operators are hopeful that one major impasse could be resolved, with the ballot result of Aslef train drivers on Southern due on Wednesday. GTR agreed a deal with union leaders last month to end the dispute over guards, as well as confirm a five-year, 23% pay deal, subject to the approval of Aslef members. Although companies have continued to run some or all services without RMT guards, limited drivers\u2019 strikes last winter brought Southern to a standstill."
"12||Sex scandals will always hit the Tories hardestIn June 1963, Frederick Bellenger, a Labour MP who ploughed an independent furrow, wrote to the Conservative chief whip, Martin Redmayne, warning him of the corrosive effect upon Tory party discipline of John Profumo\u2019s resignation: \u201cIf I am seen speaking to you again today I shall be judged your permanent spy. Yet I must tell you that at dinner tonight Margaret Thatcher made clear that she was for the prime minister [Harold Macmillan] going at once and stuck to her guns when challenged by Julian Critchley and myself on behalf of the loyalists.\u201d The vignette of Thatcher, an MP for less than four years, conspiring against Macmillan illustrates a truth that holds good more than half a century later. The Profumo affair and Lord Denning\u2019s report upon it helped to ignite the moral and sexual revolution of the 60s. But what concerned the future Iron Lady were the scandal\u2019s immediate political ramifications \u2013 for herself, her fellow backbenchers and the survival of the government. The same distinction applies in 2017. Politics and ethics intersect, but they are not coterminous. Though the exercise of power and the creation of the good society are intimately connected, they are by no means the same thing. So Theresa May\u2019s meeting on Monday with her fellow party leaders to discuss the sexual harassment scandal sweeping Westminster may yield important structural proposals to thwart parliamentary predators and protect victims of unwelcome advances. What it cannot do is contain the political consequences of what has already been, and has yet to be, alleged. Morally speaking, this is an equal-opportunity horror, one that disgraces all the parties. It has shed light on a gruesome culture of sexual misconduct, blind eyes turned and wicked manipulation. It embraces the whole of Westminster. But \u2013 politically \u2013 it is worst for the Tories. Why? Because they are perceived, fairly or otherwise, as the party of presumption and entitlement. Just as the left often manifests the smugness of moral rectitude, Conservatives, too, frequently seem to glide through the world as if it has been created for their benefit and capricious use. In the court of public opinion \u2013 rather than of natural justice \u2013 Tories accused of sexual misconduct are guilty until proven innocent. But there\u2019s also the fact that they are in government, at least on paper. Michael Fallon has already resigned as defence secretary. Charlie Elphicke, a former party whip, has been suspended by the Tories following \u201cserious allegations\u201d that have been referred to the police. Daniel Poulter, a former health minister, has been reported to his party\u2019s new disciplinary body concerning claims about his behaviour towards at least three woman MPs. Meanwhile, Sue Gray, head of propriety and ethics at the Cabinet Office, is investigating claims that Damian Green, made improper sexual advances towards a much younger female journalist. Gray\u2019s in-tray is now further burdened by reports in the Sunday Times that police found \u201cextreme\u201d porn on one of Green\u2019s parliamentary computers in 2008. It must be recorded that the first secretary of state vehemently denies all these allegations, and clearly believes he will be exonerated. But No 10 has questions to answer, too. Was anyone now working in Downing Street tipped off about Green\u2019s alleged conduct when he was appointed work and pensions secretary in July 2016 or to his current post \u2013 effectively deputy prime minister \u2013 in June? And, if so, how did they respond? It is in the nature of such incendiary stories to spray political shrapnel everywhere. To change the metaphor: they absorb far too much of a government\u2019s limited bandwidth. How can Green, such a central figure in this government and its daily management, possibly get on with his job against such a backdrop? Brexit was already distracting ministers from the ordinary business of running the country. Now they don\u2019t even have time for that. As Ted Heath told the then Conservative whip, Gyles Brandreth, in the dying days of John Major\u2019s premiership: \u201cYou whips are so busy now controlling the vermin you have no time for controlling the government.\u201d Scandal destroys those in power when it dramatises something deeper; when it chimes with a broader perception. The Profumo affair was not the single, indisputable cause of Macmillan\u2019s resignation or the Tories\u2019 defeat in 1964. But it epitomised the Conservative government\u2019s fatal loss of grip and its growing obsolescence in an age of sexual liberation. Naturally, the present scandal deepens the crater of political incapacity in which May has languished since the exit poll on the night of 8 June. But it has added to the charge sheet, sharpening the perception that the present cohort of governing Conservatives do not know how to behave decently and respectfully in the modern world. To point out that most Tory politicians manage not to abuse their power for sexual ends has become a political irrelevance. Too many of them stand accused of doing so for some of the mud not to stick. The stench of nastiness, of a repulsive droit du seigneur, fills the nostrils. But it is also a spectacle of absurdity: all these grey men trying it on, missing the point, pathetically indifferent to the damage they cause. I call it Woltz\u2019s law. In The Godfather, that key political text, the studio boss, Jack Woltz, browbeats the mafia consigliere Tom Hagen thus: \u201cA man in my position can\u2019t afford to be made to look ridiculous!\u201d And that is precisely how they look right now, these floundering Tories: loathsome and ridiculous. There is no due process in the unfolding of political history, no lofty notion of justice. It is a savage business. On this government limps, dragging behind it nothing more than a cargo of suspicion, contempt and justified self-loathing."
"0||Mauricio Pochettino urges England to be cautious with Harry KaneMauricio Pochettino has urged Gareth Southgate to handle Harry Kane with care during the upcoming international break and the Tottenham Hotspur manager also reported that Harry Winks is a doubt for England\u2019s games against Germany and Brazil while Dele Alli has already been ruled out of them. Winks twisted an ankle in the 19th minute of Spurs\u2019 win against Crystal Palace at Wembley on Sunday and though he played on after treatment, he did not appear for the second half. The 21-year-old will now be assessed by the Tottenham and England medics. Kane also needed treatment after a first-half tackle from Palace\u2019s Tim Fosu-Mensah but he carried on and Pochettino said that there was no problem with him. The manager, though, withdrew him on 77 minutes as a precaution because he was mindful of how much football the striker had played in recent weeks. In the previous international break Kane completed the 90 minutes against both Slovenia and Lithuania, and Pochettino would like the England manager to bear in mind Kane\u2019s workload for what are only friendlies with Germany and Brazil. Alli missed out on the Palace game because of a hamstring injury, which Pochettino said he had first felt in the previous weekend\u2019s loss at Manchester United. There is a confidence at Tottenham that Alli will be fit for the derby against Arsenal that follows the international break. \u201cIt\u2019s a difficult situation for everyone,\u201d Pochettino said when asked about Kane\u2019s fitness and fatigue levels. \u201cFor us, we are focusing on our problems and our injuries but I also understand completely what the national team wants and needs. The most important thing is that the national teams, including England, understand the needs of our players and help them so they will be fit when they return here. \u201cAll you can do is have good communication and explain the situation of everyone and then trust in them. I subbed him to protect him after Real Madrid last Wednesday. It was such an emotional game and it is better to avoid a risk. \u201cWinks twisted his ankle and at the moment it is extremely painful. We must assess him with our medical staff and that of the national team. He is so excited to make the national team and I am sure he wants to make it. But it is up to the medical people. \u201cAlli was feeling his tendon in the posterior muscle, close to the hamstring, after the United game. He then played 90 minutes against Real Madrid. It is a very small thing. We hope treatment will go well in the next two weeks and he will be fit to arrive against Arsenal.\u201d"
"0||FA Cup: Woking and Guiseley hold League opponents to earn place in drawThe National League sides Woking and Guiseley earned draws against Football League opposition on Sunday to ensure a place in the second round draw. Woking recovered from the concession of an early goal to draw 1-1 against Bury, while Guiseley drew 0-0 at home to Accrington Stanley, currently second in League Two. Woking earned their replay against managerless Bury through Jamie Philpot\u2019s header after their League One visitors, who sacked Lee Clark last month, went ahead after 42 seconds through Michael Smith. Truro\u2019s FA Cup journey came to an end in a 1-3 defeat at Charlton Athletic. The National League South side, the first Cornish club to reach the first round for 48 years, went behind before half-time to Ben Reeves\u2019s shot and Mark Marshall\u2019s deflected shot doubled Charlton\u2019s lead after 53 minutes. Tyler Harvey\u2019s header soon reduced the deficit to give hope to the 1,000 travelling fans but Reeves drove in his second to make sure of League One side\u2019s place in the next round. Jayden Stockley\u2019s second-half double set up Exeter City\u2019s 3-1 win over Heybridge Swifts at St James Park. The Isthmian League Division One North visitors held out until the 59th minute before two goals in four minutes from Stockley. Sam Bantick made it 2-1 but Paul Tisdale\u2019s side made it through after Liam McAlinden added a third. Wycombe Wanderers won 2-0 at the struggling National League side Solihull Moors at Damson Park thanks to goals from Nick Freeman and Craig Mackail-Smith. Swindon Town were never at risk of an upset at Dartford after racing into a 3-0 lead inside half an hour following Timi Elsnik\u2019s two goals and Harry Smith\u2019s drive. Amine Linganzi added a fourth two minutes after the break and Paul Mullin made it 5-0 before Richard Sho Silva scored a consolation for the National League south side. Elsewhere, Jordan Ponticelli\u2019s first-half double eased the 1987 winners Coventry City into the second round as they beat Maidenhead 2-0. Jabo Ibehre earned a 1-0 win for Cambridge United over Sutton United at the Abbey Stadium despite the hosts playing 50 minutes with 10 men after George Maris\u2019 first-half dismissal. Leatherhead and Billericay drew 1-1 as Billy Bricknell\u2019s penalty earned a replay for Billericay, who included Paul Konchesky \u2013 a beaten finalist with West Ham in 2006 \u2013 in their line up. Jack Midson\u2019s header had given the hosts Leatherhead the lead. On Saturday Oxford City, second bottom in the National League South, provided the shock of the day in the FA Cup first round, beating Colchester, 56 places above them, with a 1-0 win away to the League Two side. Matt Paterson headed home David Pearce\u2019s cross at the start of the second half as City reached the second round for only the second time in their history. Boreham Wood, 10th in the National League, provided another shock by beating Blackpool 2-1 at home. Danny Philliskirk gave the League One side the lead but the hosts hit back through Blair Turgott, on loan from Stevenage, and Dan Holman. Maidstone, of the National League South, were the third non-league team to upset the bigger fish, winning 4-2 at the League Two side Cheltenham thanks to a double from Delano Sam\u2011Yorke, who was later sent off. Joe Pigott and Zavon Hines were also on target for Maidstone. Cheltenham\u2019s Kevin Dawson was also sent off. There was no repeat of last season\u2019s FA Cup heroics from Lincoln, who reached the quarter-finals in March. An early Lyle Taylor goal gave AFC Wimbledon a 1-0 win to deny Danny Cowley and his players another fairytale run. Ebbsfleet United looked to be on course for an upset when they led Doncaster Rovers 2-0 just before half-time, thanks to goals by Danny Kedwell and Luke Coulson. But the League One side hit back to level with two late goals before the interval and then hit four in the second half including a double for James Coppinger, who is closing in on 500 games for the club. Matthew Lench\u2019s hat-trick helped the Southern Premier League leaders, Slough Town, into the second round with a six-goal demolition of Gainsborough Trinity. Further goals came from Chris Flood, Manny Williams and Sean Fraser to complete a 6-0 away victory. Blackburn proved too good for Barnet, the League One side winning 3-1 with goals from Joe Nuttall, Danny Graham and Marcus Antonsson. Barnet, struggling in League Two, replied through their Nigerian forward Simeon Akinola. The Mansfield manager, Steve Evans, hailed the stunning late double by local boy Danny Rose which brought an end to Shaw Lane\u2019s improbable FA Cup run at Sheerien Park. Rose struck with a powerful header and a superb overhead kick in the last quarter-hour of the game as the League Two club held their nerve against Northern Premier League opponents from Barnsley. A shock seemed possible when Ian Bennett equalised Mansfield\u2019s opener from Krystian Pearce, then the home goalkeeper, Jon Stewart, saved a Jacob Mellis penalty with the score at 1-1. Evans said: \u201cDanny lives only four streets away from Shaw Lane and probably knew three-quarters of the supporters, so I\u2019m very impressed with the professional job he did today. Everybody outside Mansfield wanted us to lose and all credit to Shaw Lane who put on a magnificent Cup tie and made it tough.\u201d The Shaw Lane manager, Craig Edwards, admitted he dreamed of a place in round two after Stewart\u2019s spot-kick save appeared to swing the momentum in his side\u2019s favour. Edwards said: \u201cWe came in wanting to be competitive and we had them on the ropes for a little while. It has taken an incredible finish to kill the game off. When you save a penalty you start thinking it could be our day, but credit to Danny, I believe he\u2019s a local lad and ex-Barnsley and he has really delivered. \u201cI hope people liked what they saw today and recognise we are a small club going in the right direction, and they will want to come back and support us in the future.\u201d The League One leaders, Shrewsbury, beat Aldershot 5-0 \u2013 the same scoreline Stevenage beat Nantwich by, thanks to a Matt Godden hat-trick \u2013 and Rochdale were 4-0 winners against Bromley. Danny Rowe\u2019s double helped Fylde into the second round for the first time as they beat Kidderminster 4-2. League Two Luton beat League One Portsmouth 1-0 at Kenilworth Road."
"0||Success of Dimitri Petratos a case study for future success of A-LeagueIt was another historic weekend for the Petratos family. 24-year old Dimitri shone for Newcastle Jets as they trounced Wellington Phoenix; 19-year old Kosta made his Jets debut alongside his brother late in the game, while earlier that day 18-year old sister Panagiota represented Newcastle in the W-League. The trio are following in the footsteps of dad Angelo, an NPL veteran, meaning the Petratos family are the first in Australian football history to have three siblings and their father all appear in national league competitions. If that wasn\u2019t enough, 17-year old Maki is in the Central Coast Mariners\u2019 system and tipped to be the best of the bunch. Now in the prime of his career, Dimitri is the centre of attention \u2013 and for good reason. His performances for Newcastle have continued the impressive form he showed before leaving Brisbane Roar midway through last season for an ill-fated moved to Ulsan Hyundai. Petratos is catching the eye because of his decision-making and bravery in attack. A trend around the world, and especially in the A-League, is for teams to construct play from the back only to lack invention in the final third. All too often, games are played between penalty areas with the ball recycled endlessly from side to side while forwards wait forlornly for a defensive mistake or a burst of inspiration. Petratos is one of the few individuals in the competition taking the game on, accepting responsibility for shooting, crossing, dribbling, or whatever is required to maintain attacking momentum. Not only that, but Petratos has the attributes to convert responsibility into effectiveness, and the footballing intelligence to know which skill to execute at the appropriate time. For the Jets\u2019 second goal on Saturday he unexpectedly dived around the outside of the Phoenix defence, stabbing over a perfect left-footed cross for Roy O\u2019Donovan. His right-footed set-pieces have long been a menace, as has his ability to switch play and shoot from distance. Few A-League players can match his goalscoring sizzle reel. Moreover, Petratos grafts. He\u2019s in the Milos Ninkovic mould of a playmaker always on the move between the lines looking for space, presenting to receive the ball and offering an outlet to a teammate or a distraction to the opposition. His performance on Saturday was magnified in comparison to the abundance of similar \u2013 but less effective \u2013 equivalents in Wellington colours. Petratos began the season on the right of a fluid four-man attacking unit but has moved inside to deputise for the injured Ronald Vargas. If the Jets are to prolong their strong start to the season through a tough run of upcoming fixtures, much will rest on Petratos\u2019 ability to perform in the No10 role. This is all a far cry from the infamous training ground bust up with Zeljko Kalac back in 2012 at Sydney FC, an incident that threatened to curtail Petratos\u2019 professional career before it had properly begun. For a while Petratos\u2019 card was marked. There were no A-League suitors prepared to take him out of Sydney so he opted for a six-month stint in the Malaysian Super League. Petratos\u2019 agent, Tony Rallis, told Fairfax Media in 2014 that A-League clubs \u201call agreed he had talent but none of them were really that interested. Let\u2019s be honest, they had a perception he was a bad apple.\u201d Brisbane Roar eventually took a punt, offering Petratos a trial ahead of the 2013-14 season, and he impressed enough to earn a one-year contract. In December of that season he bagged a hat-trick against Sydney FC and hasn\u2019t looked back since. Petratos\u2019 growth is testament to the development culture at Brisbane. His technique and game awareness improved by training and playing alongside Thomas Broich and Besart Berisha, while the mentoring of Jade North, Matt McKay and Shane Stefanutto erased doubts over his character. Roar coach Mike Mulvey was instrumental, telling Seb Hassett, \u201cwhen he first arrived, he\u2019d take 20 touches of the ball and then pass. It was too much. We\u2019ve limited that and he\u2019s thinking quicker. He\u2019s listening to our advice, he\u2019s fitting in and there\u2019s no question he\u2019s found a happy place in Brisbane.\u201d There are similarities to be drawn between Petratos and other early season stars Daniel De Silva and Kearyn Baccus. All three are players blossoming in the A-League later than expected. All took risks overseas and all must surely be in Socceroo consideration. They are all examples of the A-League operating effectively. It is a competition that should have room for young Australian players with high ceilings and it should support their need for second and third chances without fear of the impact this may have on competitiveness. As the FFA governance dispute moves into its final phase \u2013 one that will involve the reshaping of the professional game \u2013 increasing opportunities for young players has to be a priority, especially as it may contradict the short-term interests of professional clubs. For example, the excellence and professionalism of Sydney FC deserves enormous praise, but their all-conquering squad was the second-oldest of any national league champions in Australian history, reflective of an upward trend in the average ages of A-League players. This is not fertile ground for another golden generation. Australian football needs more professional teams providing more opportunities, and the rise of Dimi Petratos is testament as to why. He benefited from an early start at one club, saw his development accelerated at another, and chanced upon a prosperous home at a third, following an unsuccessful stint overseas. The net result is not only a standout performer for Newcastle and a potential Socceroo, but also a case study for the future success of the A-League."
"2||Melbourne Cup preview: cream of world racing descends on FlemingtonCan Frankie finally do it? Can Aiden O\u2019Brien finally do it? Can Sheikh Mohammed finally do it? Yes, it\u2019s Melbourne Cup time, when the land down under goes over the top for a horse race and when the world\u2019s racing elite ply their annual quest, before going home wondering what the hell happened, again. This is that peculiar Australian festival of wanton abandon to the punt and the plonk; a hangover from another era, that gives annual licence to a national hangover. No other national event can so conjure Australia\u2019s historic and reckless will to party. The scene was set for the first Cup of the Trump era on Saturday, when Australia\u2019s foreign minister, the Honourable Julie Bishop, made her annual usually taxpayer-funded appearance on Victoria Derby Day, wearing the millinery equivalent of a spy satellite on her head. \u201cI\u2019d rather be a horse at Flemington than a refugee at Manus Island,\u201d one Twitter wit cracked, referencing Australia\u2019s international controversy du jour. It was the would-be PM\u2019s \u201clet them eat cake\u201d moment as she joined Australia\u2019s bunyip aristocracy for their annual roll call at Flemington; ladies in silly hats, gentlemen in morning coats, as if Royal Ascot had magically appeared on the banks of the Maribyrnong. Beyond the exclusive marquees, the rest of the 87,000 patrons were busy drinking themselves into oblivion. This is the coterie Australian racing mandarins are keen to court these days. It is a magnificent farce that adds nothing to the spectacle out on the track. For actual fans of racing, it\u2019s been a stellar Spring thus far on the Australian turf, long shots galore, interstate rivalry, a suitable modicum of controversy and of course the historic deeds by one horse and rider, the mare of the century Winx and her gentleman postillion Hugh Bowman, who combined to win a record-equalling third WS Cox Plate, Australia\u2019s best horse race. Some UK commentators sniffed that she\u2019s but a local champ, and what would Enable do to her? Silly stuff, comparing three year olds to six year olds, but we may get our an answer come Royal Ascot 2018. Normally we would now turn our attention to the Cup as Australia\u2019s richest horse race, had not Sydney racing officials rudely inserted the \u201cworld\u2019s richest turf race\u201d into the early Spring calendar with its $10m sprint the Everest, in a triumph of ambush marketing. The Everest created much local Sydney hubbub and backslapping, as a bigger-than-usual crowd of imbibers turned up at Royal Randwick to gasp fleetingly at the 1200m scamper. So this year the $6.2m Emirates Melbourne Cup (3200m) is casting around for other superlatives: Australia\u2019s most famous race; the world\u2019s richest handicap, but still Australia\u2019s biggest major event (bringing some $400m in for Victoria\u2019s economy). There were no international runners in the Everest and the race itself would be only supporting event if run on Tuesday. By comparison, this year\u2019s Melbourne Cup can boast a record-equalling 11 international runners, as the cream of the world\u2019s trainers and jockeys descend for what remains one of the world\u2019s truly great sporting spectacles. And with the quality of this year\u2019s field, the Empire has struck back. All eyes are on Frankie Dettori as he tries to cap his magnificent career with the race that has thus far eluded him. This year he gets perhaps his best chance with the ride on favourite and last year\u2019s winner Almandin, one of no less than six runners for five-time winning owner, Lloyd Williams. Dettori was the beneficiary of a moment of madness from former champion jockey Damien Oliver, who lost the plum Cup ride after being suspended for improper riding in the Cox Plate. The market power of Williams has never been so evident as he lines up one quarter of the field. Since linking up with Williams in recent years, Irish champion handler Aiden O\u2019Brien will be hoping Johannes Vermeer can end his historic Group One winning season by delivering the one scalp that has eluded his illustrious career. Godolphin principle Sheikh Mohammed is in the same category: yet to break his Melbourne Cup maiden after two decades of trying. Last year he had five runners, this year just one: his outstanding stayer Hartnell, who ran third last year after a WFA campaign, but who has been set specifically this year for the Cup by James Cummings, in his debutante year as Godolphin\u2019s head trainer in Australia. Should Cummings win with Hartnell, it\u2019s unclear if his late and legendary grandfather Bart, the winner of 12 Melbourne Cups, will be cheering or turning in his grave: Cummings Senior was always a staunch critic of the \u201coverseas raiders\u201d who had made his job of winning cups so much harder (though no less frequent) in his twilight years. Of the other \u201craiders\u201d, Hugo Palmer says Wall of Fire has thrived since arriving in Melbourne and Willie Mullins will have a strong hand with three runners this year after Thomas Hobson sneaked into the field on Saturday with the late scratching of Jon Snow. He will join 2015 runner up Max Dynamite and Wicklow Brave in the field. Mullins said at the barrier draw that champion international jockey Jo\u00e3o Moreira chased the ride on Thomas Hobson and has been booked for months. Another notable raider is the French entrant Tiberian, an anomaly of the breeding barn in that his sire Tiberius Caesar is actually the \u201cteaser\u201d for sire Authorized, the stud farm equivalent of a \u201cfluffer\u201d. He comes into the race the dark horse, but with a wide draw, he will need all Oliver Peslier\u2019s skill to take up a position."
"15||Letters to the Lady Upstairs by Marcel Proust \u2013 digested readMadame, Your letter gave me so much desire to see you, and then at the very moment that I received the letter, I realised you had left, for that is the very nature of an epistolary exchange, a state of joyeuse tristesse in which the two parties converse at a distance yet never enjoy the pleasure of meeting, but still one that is perhaps best suited to those whose temperament is steeped in a desire to recreate through memory, though one cannot say for certain, since memory informs our comprehension of ourselves and yet somehow obscures it, hiding our latency, our very identity through our inability to discriminate between the trivial and the consequential, creating an endless stream of consciousness that reminds me, much like the fragment of the C\u00e9sar Franck quartet I fleetingly heard while I lay ill in bed, that through the fissures of memory comes understanding. I thank you with all my heart for the deep consideration you have shown me in limiting the noise that your builders are making, but I urge you strongly to encourage them to make as much noise as possible between the hours of 3pm and 5pm next Tuesday, for at that time I shall be taking myself to visit the doctor, providing I am not too unwell to leave the house, in which case I shall have to beg you for absolute silence, as I am unable to work if there is the slightest movement above my head, for footsteps bring to mind the childhood anxiety of hearing Maman walking outside my bedroom door and not knowing whether she would step inside to kiss me goodnight. I fear, Madame, that your letter was so interesting and thoughtful that for a moment it distracted me from the graveness of my many illnesses, a state of forgetting that is quite at odds with my remembrance of things past, though, heureusement, within minutes, perhaps even moments, my cough returned and I was once again able to concentrate on the important matters in hand, yet in that time of otherness I recall being tempted to go upstairs to thank you in person, but then thought better of it lest the sound of my own footsteps bring on another near fatal malady. I must also implore your help in insisting on absolute silence throughout Tuesday morning, for on the Monday preceding it, Le Figaro is publishing several of my articles, so I shall have to leave the house to do battle with both the fog and the general public to find my way to the newsagent on Boulevard Haussmann to purchase a copy, the result of which exertion is that I am sure to be ill in bed the following day. Madame, your reports of a war taking place in northern France are deeply troubling, and I can only pray that the fighting does not get too close to Paris for the noise would be sure to prevent me from working on the fourth volume of my work, without which the first three cannot be properly enjoyed or indeed understood, though I suppose that what will be will be, as the Duchesse de Guermantes used to say when walking among the periwinkles and the forget-me-nots, and if it is my fate to be misunderstood and extremely ill at least I have not fallen to my death from an aeroplane like my secretary, which has caused me the inconvenience and exertion of having to write this letter in person. Forgive me, Madame, for not having replied to your last letter more quickly, as I am certain you must have been desolate not to hear my latest news, but the truth is that I was far too weak to open the envelope and so I hope it is not too indiscreet of me to inform you that I have not been at all well these past few weeks, and I must beg you for silence this coming Saturday, an inconvenience for which I was minded to send you a bouquet of lilies until a distant memory of a florist banging the front door behind him in Combray brought me out in a fever from which I am not sure I will ever fully recover, but those of us who exist primarily in the world of remembrance are bound by its susceptibilities, and I once more find myself forgetting if I have mentioned to you before how unwell I have been and that I crave your indulgence to not make so much noise. Marcel Proust Digested read, digested: Fermez le F up, s\u2019il vous plait."
"1||Australia's gonorrhoea rise of 63% driven by urban heterosexualsHeterosexual people living in major cities have driven a 63% rise in gonorrhoea in Australia over the past five years. The data is revealed in the annual surveillance report on HIV, viral hepatitis and sexually transmissible infections, released by the Kirby Institute in Sydney on Monday. The report shows there were 23,887 new diagnoses of gonorrhoea in 2016, with about three quarters of them in men. Between 2012 and 2016, gonorrhoea notification rates increased from 62 per 100,000 people to 101 per 100,000 people. Rates increased by 72% in men and 43% in women. Men aged between 25 and 29 and women between 20 and 24 saw the largest increase in gonorrhoea infections, the report found. There was a 99% increase in gonorrhoea notification rates in major cities in the five years to 2016, while rates increased by 15% in regional areas and declined by 8% in rural areas. Associate professor Rebecca Guy, the head of Kirby\u2019s surveillance evaluation and research program at the University of NSW, said gonorrhoea had been uncommon in young heterosexual urban people until recently. It was unclear why rates were increasing in this population, but it was not because of increasing awareness and diagnosis alone, she said. There is concern about increasing rates of antimicrobial resistant strains of gonorrhoea, particularly in the US, but Guy said strains in Australia were not resistant yet, so that did not explain the increase either. \u201cThe reasons [for the increase] are not yet understood,\u201d Guy said. \u201cChanges in sexual behaviour, sociodemographic factors, and the spread of a particular strain in suburban centres may be some of the reasons, even though the specific reasons are not known.\u201d She said the data suggested doctors should be aware of the need to test patients for the infection, which is asymptomatic in 50% of men and 80% of women. While treatment is simple with antibiotics if caught early, untreated it can cause serious health problems including infertility and sterility. Chlamydia and gonorrhoea rates were three and seven times higher respectively among Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and the gaps were greater in regional and remote areas, the report found. Since 2011, there has been a resurgence of infectious syphilis among young Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people living in regional and remote areas of northern Australia. The report also found the number of new HIV diagnoses in Australia had remained stable over the past five years, with 1,066 diagnoses in 2012, compared with 1,013 in 2016. Guy said the results were due to high levels of testing and treatment. \u201cWe\u2019re seeing increased uptake of HIV testing, particularly among gay and bisexual men, who are the population most affected by HIV in Australia,\u201d Guy said. \u201cIt is also encouraging that 86% of people diagnosed with HIV were on treatment in 2016.\u201d Those who receive proper treatment can reduce their HIV loads to undetectable levels, eliminating their risk of passing it on. The surveillance report also found an estimated 30,434 people were cured of hepatitis C between March and December 2016, due to the availability of a new antiviral therapy. Associate professor Jason Grebely, from the viral hepatitis clinical research program at the Kirby Institute, said the new therapy had been \u201cgame-changing\u201d. \u201cOur estimates indicate that the number of people with hepatitis C who have advanced liver disease has fallen for the first time in 10 years,\u201d he said. \u201cThis is excellent news, but to achieve hepatitis C elimination in Australia we must sustain our efforts to ensure all people living with hepatitis C are tested and have access to these cures.\u201d"
"12||Manus is the most confronting place I have seen \u2013 but I still needed to go backI have covered sad and difficult stories around the world. From the Rohingya refugee crisis in Bangladesh to the South Sudan civil war and humanitarian fallout, where I visited a camp with 45,000 people living in knee-deep mud mixed with human waste. But my work last year at the Australian-run detention centre on Manus Island profoundly affected me: although I\u2019ve seen terrible things in the past, there always seemed to be some kind of hope or will to fight. But on Manus, all that is left is a sense of despair. The common feeling among the men I met is a desire to die. To add to this, it\u2019s my own country and my own people who are directly responsible. Australia has detained \u2013 and psychologically tortured \u2013 men on Manus island for four years. They are being crushed by bureaucracy and politics. This is being seen and tolerated. The way Australia treats those men will be remembered as a stain on our young nation. When I returned home from my first trip to Manus, I would ask myself: if people knew the full extent of what is happening on Manus, would they support this? The answer is no. I don\u2019t believe anybody, including the politicians responsible, realises the depth of damage that is being inflicted on these men. Last week, Australia shut down the refugee centre, after a court in Papua New Guinea declared it illegal. But 600 men are refusing to leave the camp \u2013 despite not having any water, food or electricity anymore. They are fearful for their lives. I was determined to return to Manus to document the situation and show the Australian people what is happening under our government\u2019s order. They didn\u2019t let me. On Friday, I travelled to PNG. Catching the early morning flight from Sydney to Port Moresby via Brisbane, I landed in Port Moresby just before midday. Waiting in line for a visa on arrival, I handed over my passport to the immigration officer. I wanted to apply for a tourist visa, the only available option for me to gain access. This is a common technique for journalists reaching sensitive places. The officer looked at her screen and asked if I was the same Matthew Abbott who had been involved in publishing disruptive material from Manus. Upon hearing the name of the island, I knew the probability of entering PNG was now going to be next to nil. During my trip to Manus in 2016, I witnessed the aftermath of two refugees being beaten up with metal pipes by a mob of locals, one of the reasons the men were \u2013 and still are \u2013 too afraid to leave the camp. I got detained for photographing the violent attack. Police told me not to publish the photos and the manager of the detention centre warned me: \u201cWhat you do now will determine whether you are ever allowed to visit PNG again.\u201d I published the photos. \u201cJust grab your bags and stand over there please while we wait for my superior,\u201d the immigration officer told me. I tried to stay positive. Her superior looked over my travel credentials and then asked me to follow a man into an interview room. I was asked a series of questions, my address in Australia, my level of education, the details of my profession, how I knew the refugees personally \u2013 by a serious but kind PNG immigration official named Donald, who was wearing thongs. I asked him if he thought I was a troublemaker who needed to be stopped from entering PNG. He said no, and that he was just following orders. I then asked why PNG was following orders and a blacklist from the Australian government, to which he responded: \u201cThis is what we must do, things are very explosive right now.\u201d He gave me the details of who I could write to, but politely told me I had to catch the next flight home. I then had my bags searched and was photographed holding my camera. I was back in Sydney less than 24 hours after leaving. \u2022 Matthew Abbott is a documentary photographer based in Sydney"
"12||'Willingness to admit error is key in the fake news era'One of the comments below my first Open Door column was: \u201cCongratulations on your new poisoned chal.... err, job.\u201d Ha, ha, I thought. In those balmy days of August 2010 a gentle ribbing within a warm welcome seemed to bode well. I had stepped down as the Guardian\u2019s managing editor after 10 years in that role. I was looking forward to moving away from budgets and back to journalism and, of course, a great deal less pressure. I was, and am, a believer in the fundamental principles of the readers\u2019 editor: dealing with readers\u2019 complaints and concerns from a position of independence within the paper. And I knew my colleagues well. What could, as they say, go wrong? Well, whatever fantasies I had of grey cardigans, a pipe and leather slippers didn\u2019t quite play out. At that time there were around 25,000 emails of complaint or inquiry a year \u2013 it was 31,000 by the end of my tenure \u2013 and no matter how brief a correction may look in print and online, that is only ever the tip of the iceberg of work involved in getting it right. The readers\u2019 editor\u2019s role works best when both sides enter into the process in good faith; it is the fastest way to a decent resolution for all. The readers\u2019 editor is able to have an open conversation in which he or she can make appropriate admissions and propose a course of action, leaving the complainant satisfied with a swift and fair response. In my experience, most Guardian readers approached the system that way, although they became understandably frustrated if they felt they were not being treated seriously in a timely manner. Readers will not be fobbed off with anything but a considered response; pushovers they are not. However, I found that there was a significant minority of complainants who simply wanted to \u201cgame the system\u201d, whether this be a corporate PR firm, a government department, or a lobbyist for a specific cause. These individuals or groups are, of course, just as entitled to call for the rectification of an error as anybody else, but they could be relentless in pursuing the narrowest of points. Media and tech companies were the most difficult during my time. The latter, perhaps not surprisingly, tended to be most concerned with the first 24 hours. For them their reputation was built and maintained online and they appeared relatively uninterested in print. As I considered in 2010 the prospect of a more contemplative life, I hadn\u2019t reckoned on the Guardian\u2019s phone-hacking story in 2011 and the ensuing Leveson inquiry, which brought a level of scrutiny to press regulation that had not been seen in more than 20 years. A key recommendation of Lord Justice Leveson was that every newspaper should have an internal system for dealing with complaints. Now most newspapers have some form of corrections and clarifications column, although none, as far as I am aware, have the level of independence the Guardian readers\u2019 editor enjoys, in that he or she can only be fired by a majority of the Scott Trust, the Guardian\u2019s owner. In my five and half years in the role, the growth of journalism and the readership online had a huge impact on the Guardian. The full force of 24/7 journalism, helped by the establishment of Guardian US and Guardian Australia, massively increased the output, and with it the chances of getting things wrong. In 2015, the Guardian published around 600 articles and 1,000 photographs a day. This has now fallen back with some sensible pruning, but I often felt a little overwhelmed at the time and I don\u2019t think I always served the audience as well as I would have wished. Trying to keep my own mistakes to a minimum \u2013 yes, readers\u2019 editors make mistakes too \u2013 became increasingly difficult. However, as I am sure my successor would agree, it is a worthwhile battle. The willingness of news organisations to admit and correct errors is key to building trust in journalism during an era when fake news is flourishing. Even our most trenchant enemies agree with this. Chris Elliott was readers\u2019 editor from August 2010 to March 2016. Next week: the current readers\u2019 editor, Paul Chadwick, looks to the future."
"1||Pauline Hanson's 'battler bus' hits the road for One Nation Queensland blitzQueensland\u2019s major political parties are about to be blitzed by a bus. A \u201cbattler bus\u201d to be specific, bearing Pauline Hanson, who missed the first week of the snap election after being caught off-guard while on a parliamentary trip to India and is aiming to make up for lost time. On Monday, Hanson will start her campaign in Brisbane, before heading north along the coast, in an electorate offensive that will reach Townsville by the end of the week, before going on to far north Queensland on the weekend. Queensland remains Hanson\u2019s strongest support base. The party is not only predicted to hold the balance of power in the state after the 25 November election, but also be a powerful preference force in the poll. Neither Labor nor the LNP have managed to capture the voting public\u2019s imagination since the January 2015 election, which left both parties short of a working majority in the parliament. One Nation\u2019s growing influence has largely overshadowed the established parties\u2019 attempts to differentiate themselves. The latest Galaxy poll, first published by News Corp on Sunday, showed 54% of respondents were worried the state would go backwards under a government controlled by Hanson\u2019s party, an increase of 5% in less than a year. While the poll confirmed Labor voters were the most worried, it also revealed 61% of LNP voters were concerned about a One Nation-dominated future. But in an increasingly divided state, the continued ascendancy of Pauline Hanson\u2019s One Nation is seen as a near-inevitability, with both major parties still struggling to reach the 47 electorates needed to guarantee government. Despite managing to catch Hanson on the hop, the Palaszczuk Labor team now confronts a One Nation blitz that could not come at a worse time for a party that hopes not just to be re-elected but re-elected with a majority. The first week of the campaign was widely seen as having been won by the LNP opposition, which managed to land policy announcements while Labor was dogged by an Adani controversy that bookended its first seven days on the hustings. Tax cuts and job announcements dominated the Tim Nicholls-led campaign, and the closest the LNP came to a faux pas was an admission it had not been able to secure a charter plane to take it north. Labor also promised jobs and savings, but was stalked by anti-Adani protesters, who managed to hijack the campaign before it got started. Labor publicly supports the massive Carmichael mine going ahead but has been adamant since the 2015 election campaign that no state funds should be used to facilitate it. That position plays well north of Gympie, where regional communities are relying on the mine to reverse a downturn in fortunes that began when local LNG projects moved from construction to production, and the simultaneous slowing of the resources economy. But in the south-east, particularly inner-city seats that have seen a resurgence towards the Greens vote, support for Adani is low, and backing it has been seen as a liability for the government. The premier, Annastacia Palaszczuk, attempted to rip that Band-Aid off on Friday, announcing she had learned of a planned \u201csmear campaign\u201d \u2013 since denied by the LNP \u2013 of her partner Shaun Drabsch\u2019s role in facilitating Adani\u2019s application for federal government funds to build the train line it needs from the mine to the Gladstone port. Palaszczuk announced on Friday the Labor state government would \u201cveto\u201d any federal government loan to Adani, which, if it wins power, means any decision by the Northern Australian Infrastructure Facility would be scuppered as states must agree to the way its funds are used. Since then, Palaszczuk has been forced to defend her decision, which she said was made on integrity grounds, after it was revealed the Integrity Commission only recommended Palaszczuk remove herself from cabinet discussions about the loan. This capped off a week that put Queensland Labor on the back foot, which the LNP \u2013 having found a charter plane \u2013 hopes to capitalise on. But both parties, who plan to turn the conversation to energy reliability and affordability in a mirror of the federal fight, face losing the agenda to Hanson\u2019s One Nation as it begins its blitz up the coast. The LNP has started the week promising to cut an average of $160 a year for the next two years from power bills but leader Nicholls is still being dogged by the fact the former Newman government made a similar promise, before power bills across the state rose by 43%. In the last week of the state parliament, Palaszczuk announced a $50 energy rebate for the next two years, But as energy prices shape up as a defining issue of the campaign, Nicholls is also under increasing pressure to announce how the LNP plans to preference One Nation. Hanson voters will be crucial in deciding the outcome of several seats, particularly in north and central Queensland and the outer urban seats that ring the major south-east hubs. Nominations formally close for the election on Tuesday, and Nicholls told reporters on Sunday any preferencing decisions would be announced in due course. Both parties hope to woo voters in seats vulnerable to One Nation. The LNP plans on a blitz of its own up and down the coast, shoring up support outside Hanson\u2019s main targets of Maryborough, Logan, Townsville, Gympie, Bundaberg and Rockhampton. But Labor is also hoping for a reset, and, with its new policy on Adani having stemmed some of the city vote loss, plans to blanket its central Queensland seats before Hanson\u2019s arrival. \u201cIt\u2019s not great for either of us, to be honest,\u201d one Labor campaigner said. \u201cGetting clear air while the Hanson bus rolls into towns we are all fighting for is going to be almost impossible. I think you are going to see a lot more grassroots, on-the-ground campaigning going on. From both of us.\u201d"
"1||Labor builds citizenship pressure with push for universal disclosureLabor shows no signs of letting the constitutional citizenship issue drop, as it ramps up pressure on the Turnbull government to submit to its universal disclosure solution. Labor and the Greens plan on continuing to prosecute the government over its refusal to allow either a citizenship audit or disclosure plan, despite lingering questions over the eligibility of MPs. Alex Hawke and Josh Frydenberg were the latest Liberal MPs to be questioned over their citizenship status, which both strongly deny is in doubt. Labor in particular remains convinced the Coalition is vulnerable on the issue, which has hijacked the government\u2019s agenda since July. The high court decision last month, which saw five of the seven MPs it examined, including Barnaby Joyce, deemed ineligible for parliament, in a black letter ruling of the constitution, was seen as the beginning of the end of the saga, until Stephen Parry\u2019s resignation last week. Parry, the former president of the Senate who oversaw the referral of six senators to the high court, was found to be a citizen of the UK by descent in circumstances very similar to the former Nationals senator and deputy leader Fiona Nash, raising fresh questions over the eligibility of MPs. Later revelations that Parry had confided in colleagues and had been told to stay quiet until the high court ruled boosted Labor\u2019s stance on the issue. Late on Sunday Penny Wong called for Hawke and Victorian Liberal Julia Banks, who was earlier pursued over questions of Greek citizenship by descent \u2013 which she denies \u2013 to be referred to the high court. \u201cAustralians can no longer believe [Malcolm] Turnbull or his MPs when they say \u2018trust us\u2019,\u201d Wong said in a statement. \u201cHow many other MPs and senators in similar situations to Stephen Parry are they covering up? \u201cThis is becoming a test of leadership for Malcolm Turnbull. \u201cWill he listen to Australians who just want this soap opera to end? Or is he so out of touch that he will continue to ignore this crisis?\u201d Despite party executives carrying out their own checks in the background, the government continues to deny the need for a wider audit, deemed a \u201cwitch hunt\u201d in talking points. But backbenchers including Tony Abbott loyalist Kevin Andrews, Craig Kelly and Eric Abetz have backed calls for an audit, which they say will help restore public trust in the parliament. Not all their colleagues agree. \u201cThere are many adjectives I could use to describe Kevin Andrews but mischievous is not one which jumps to mind,\u201d Jason Falinski said in response to a question on Sky about Andrews\u2019 motives. \u201cLook, the fact of the matter is the people want us to get on with dealing with issues which are of concern to them, they find this is an unnecessary distraction. \u201cAn audit or a universal declaration is not going to do that, because as the prime minister has pointed out again and again and again, there is only one body empowered in Australia that can make determinations of this nature and that is the high court sitting as the court of disputed returns.\u201d The government is sticking to its line that anyone who believes a member of parliament is ineligible should move a motion to refer them to the high court. However convention, which is yet to be broken, dictates the member themselves, or the party they belong to, move the motion. A Labor source said the party had no plans, as yet, to break that convention."
"16||When should cinemas turn on the lights at the end of a film?Italian film-maker Luca Guadagnino\u2019s new coming-of-age drama Call Me by Your Name has received ecstatic reviews, but not every cinemagoer has emerged from the movie content. According to reports on social media, branches of Vue and Odeon chose to raise the house lights as the credits rolled \u2013 even though they roll over the film\u2019s moving final scene. The scene may not be especially crucial to the plot, but it contains the last beats of an awards-worthy turn by its young star, Timoth\u00e9e Chalamet. So is flicking the light-switch the senseless act of a multiplex with no appreciation for the subtlety of arthouse cinema? Actually, no, says Dave Norris, a former chief projectionist at the Empire cinema in Leicester Square, London. For several years, he explains, it has been a legal health and safety requirement that cinemas put their lights up whenever audience members are likely to be moving around; that goes for the credits at the end of a film, as well as the trailers beforehand. Now that most cinema projections are automated, there\u2019s rarely a human in the booth exercising personal discretion. Movies arrive at cinemas not on a reel, but on a hard drive. \u201cThe drive has a label on it with the film\u2019s title, the length of the movie, what screen ratio it should be shown in and so on. And it also has the credit offset time,\u201d says Norris. \u201cThe cinema puts a cue in their automation system, which will bring up the lights at precisely that moment in the screening.\u201d Most cinemas have a \u201csubtle\u201d lighting setting for the credits, which ought to satisfy both the safety rules and cinemagoers. But, Norris adds: \u201cNo two lighting levels are going to be the same from cinema to cinema.\u201d In an age when more and more films have mid-credit and post-credit sequences, \u201cwhen to bring up the lights is a grey area\u201d. Marvel movies famously feature multiple post-credits sequences, which often set up the next film in the superhero franchise. Modern comedies frequently include blooper reels after the film itself is over. The trend extends to arthouse: in his acclaimed 2005 film Cach\u00e9 (\u201cHidden\u201d), director Michael Haneke revealed a crucial twist in a wordless scene during the final credits. Corinna Antrobus, communications manager at Picturehouse, says most of its cinemas have projectionists, \u201cwho can apply a judgment as to when to put up the lights and by how much\u201d. In the case of Call Me by Your Name, they would \u201caim to keep the lights low or off until \u2026 the scene has completed.\u201d Vue, meanwhile, confirms its lighting has always been \u201cautomatically sequenced to come on to a half-light as the credits start, for customers wishing to leave the screen immediately\u201d. If customers complain, the chain says, it checks lighting levels for the screenings in question, adding: \u201cWe do not have different lighting policies for different genres of films.\u201d"
"5||Nick Wallis obituaryMy father-in-law, Nick Wallis, who has died aged 85, was one of the final cohort of colonial civil servants. He saw his most important role as helping Kenya towards a successful independence. Born in Oxford, Nick was the son of Claude Wallis, who also worked for the colonial service, and his wife, Winifred (nee Shawyer), an artist. After a childhood partially spent in wartime Sudan and Kenya, in 1946 Nick was sent to Bryanston school in Dorset. He studied agriculture at St John\u2019s College, Cambridge, where he rowed for the university in the 1953 and 1954 Boat Races. He then completed an MSc at the Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture in Trinidad. He met Joy Wilcocks, a primary school teacher on secondment from Kent, on the island, and they married in 1955. The following year, they moved to Kenya, for Nick to take up a civil service post as agricultural officer. His first job was at the Coffee Research Station, Jacaranda, where he contributed to the development of the Kenyan coffee industry. Nick was a keen mountaineer and photographer, and the family enjoyed safaris on the game parks and trips to Mounts Kenya and Kilimanjaro. After independence in 1963 Nick was retained at the invitation of President Jomo Kenyatta. His final roles for the Kenyan government were assistant director of agriculture and chief coffee officer. In 1971 the family returned to the UK, living in Camberley, Surrey, while Nick took up a post with the International Coffee Organisation as chief area officer, western hemisphere. He joined the World Bank in 1974, moving to Bethesda, Maryland, and served from 1977 to 1983 as the deputy division chief, where he used his wide experience in supervising loans for projects in South America. He then became division chief for agriculture and rural development, the education and training wing of the World Bank, finally working on economic development and training projects from China to Brazil. In 1992 Nick and Joy retired to Docklow, Herefordshire, engaging enthusiastically with the local community in between travelling and entertaining their family and friends. Nick visited Antarctica in 2011 to complete his set of continents. During this period he continued his work on tropical agriculture, publishing a World Bank monograph in 1997 and acting as an adviser to an increasing number of researchers. Joy died in 2014, and in 2015 Nick moved to Lincoln. There he became a member of the St Nicholas with St John church community in Newport. His adventures included a South African safari and tall ships sailing in Thailand. Nick is survived by his children, Jill, Philip, Janet, Felicity and Thomas, nine grandchildren and two great-grandchildren."
"5||Scottish Labour MSP says senior party figures 'glossed over' her assaultThe controversy over Labour\u2019s handling of harassment incidents deepened further after Monica Lennon, a Scottish Labour MSP, said senior party figures had belittled and glossed over an incident where a powerful official had assaulted her in front of colleagues. Lennon, a rising star at Holyrood, said the incident happened at a Labour party social event in 2013, before she was elected to the Scottish parliament. She told the Sunday Mail newspaper the assault happened in full view of six people. \u201cOne witness, who at the time was a Labour politician, joked to everyone in earshot: \u2018That\u2019s your fault for coming over here and getting him all excited,\u2019\u201d she said. Although her anxieties about the alleged assailant\u2019s conduct grew after further events, Lennon said she did not feel able to complain officially because she felt he was too powerful for her complaints to be successful. Her disclosures have added to the disquiet at Holyrood after a Scottish National party MSP, Mark McDonald, resigned as the children\u2019s and young persons minister after admitting his behaviour in the past \u201cmight have made others uncomfortable or led them to question\u201d his intentions. No details about these incidents has yet been disclosed, or who has complained. The SNP has confirmed it is still investigating a complaint against another party member, not another MSP. The Sunday Post reported there was another case, involving an informal complaint by a Holyrood clerk against the SNP MSP Willie Coffey, who is alleged to have used inappropriate language and unsolicited attention. That case did not lead to a formal investigation, but Coffey denied any wrongdoing. A spokesman said the MSP \u201cdoes not recognise the claims that are being made about his behaviour\u201d."
"11||Royal purge sends shockwaves through Saudi Arabia's elitesSaudi Arabia\u2019s leadership has pulled off its boldest move yet to consolidate power around its young crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, arresting 11 senior princes, one of the country\u2019s richest men and scores of former ministers in what it billed as a corruption purge. The move sidelined at least 20 senior figures, among them outspoken billionaire, Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, sending shockwaves through the ranks of the kingdom\u2019s elites, who had long viewed senior royals as immune. The scale and targets of Saturday\u2019s purge \u2013 ordered by royal decree from King Salman \u2013 dwarfed anything seen in Riyadh in recent years, deliberately targeting figures deemed previously to be untouchables. Figures close to the crown prince said the move aimed to reshape public behaviour in a kingdom where patronage networks often determine business deals and prominent families secure substantial cuts from lucrative contracts. However, others in the Saudi capital described the move as a naked attempt to weed out dissent, and political rivals, as the ambitious heir to the throne continues to stamp his authority across most aspects of public life in Saudi Arabia. The move strengthens Prince Mohammed\u2019s control of the kingdom\u2019s security institutions, which had long been headed by separate powerful branches of the ruling family. Nearly six months into his tenure as crown prince, which will eventually see him succeed his father as monarch, Prince Mohammed has launched a dizzying series of reforms designed to transform the kingdom\u2019s moribund economy and put the relationship between the state and its citizens on a new footing. Corruption has been rampant in recent generations in Saudi Arabia and Prince Mohammed had vowed to make business dealings more transparent. The spectacle of royal family members being arrested would add weight to claims of a crackdown on graft. However, such is the manner in which business is done in the kingdom, there would be few senior figures not connected to contract deals that would be considered corrupt in many other parts of the world. The attorney general, Saud al-Mojeb, said the newly mandated corruption commission had started multiple investigations. \u201cThe suspects are being granted the same rights and treatment as any other Saudi citizen,\u201d he said. \u201cA suspect\u2019s position or status does not influence the firm and fair application of justice. During the investigation, all parties retain full legal privileges relating to their personal and private property, including funds.\u201d The decree establishing the commission said: \u201cThe homeland will not exist unless corruption is uprooted and the corrupt are held accountable.\u201d The arrested officials are believed to be being housed in the five-star Ritz Carlton Hotel, which two weeks ago held a high-profile investment summit under the auspices of Prince Mohammed. The convention centre next door was used to receive Donald Trump in May, when the US president travelled to Saudi Arabia to reset relations with his country\u2019s long-term ally, which had deteriorated under the Obama administration, that had pivoted to Iran. The Trump visit emboldened the kingdom, which has been locked in a decades-long tussle with Iran for power and influence across the region. Since then, a swath of economic policies have been launched, along with cultural reforms unprecedented in Saudi history. By mid next year, women are expected to be allowed to drive, to enter sports stadiums and travel abroad without the endorsement of their male guardians. Prince Mohammed will oversee the corruption commission, adding to his already formidable list of responsibilities, including his role as defence minister and champion of the economic transformation, dubbed Vision 2030, that aims to revolutionise most aspects of Saudi life within 12 years. Prince Mohammed told the Guardian last month that the kingdom had been \u201cnot normal\u201d for the past 30 years and pledged to return Saudi Arabia to moderate Islam. The kingdom\u2019s top council of clerics tweeted that anti-corruption efforts were \u201cas important as the fight against terrorism\u201d, essentially giving religious backing to the crackdown. In September, Prince Mohammed authorised the detention of some of the country\u2019s most powerful clerics, fearing they may not be loyal to his agenda and supportive of his boycott of Qatar, which Saudi leaders accuse of destablising the region. Saturday\u2019s moves on the home front followed a striking foreign policy stance earlier in the day that appeared to put the kingdom on a political collision course with Iran. Under Saudi pressure, the Lebanese prime minister, Saad al-Hariri, unexpectedly quit his job, citing Iranian interference across the Middle East. Hariri made his statement in Riyadh after twice being summoned to the Saudi capital during the week."
"0||Gabriel Jesus strikes from the bench as rampant Manchester City see off ArsenalIt still feels too early, with the leaves falling from the trees and fireworks in the sky, to assume Manchester City are going to turn the Premier League into a procession and that nothing can possibly go wrong for Pep Guardiola\u2019s freewheeling side. But it certainly seems a possibility when they are playing this way, the goals are flying in from every angle and the team enjoying the view from the top of the league are on course to smash just about every scoring record in history. From their first 11 fixtures City have greedily accumulated 38 goals. Their goals-per-game ratio actually came down a touch here but, once again, it was difficult to tot up how many chances they created and, in the process, they made it another demoralising experience for Ars\u00e8ne Wenger\u2019s side. This is the first time since 1981 Arsenal have lost four of their first six away games. The defeat leaves them sixth, 12 points from the top, and it would have been a rout had the home team been more ruthless during their periods of near-complete superiority. As it was, City made do with a goal each for Kevin De Bruyne and the substitute Gabriel Jesus and, in between, a penalty for Sergio Ag\u00fcero on the day the Argentinian was presented with a \u201cBlue Boot\u201d trophy for becoming the club\u2019s all-time record scorer. Shaun Goater, Niall Quinn and David White were among the lineup of former City forwards at the pre\u2011match presentation and it was another reminder how this club has changed under Abu Dhabi ownership. The scariest part for the chasing pack of teams is that Guardiola\u2019s men might actually regard this as a slightly scruffy performance at times. There was even the sight of David Silva, Fernandino and De Bruyne misplacing a few passes and Raheem Sterling might wake in a cold sweat when he thinks back to a two-on-one breakaway in the first half when his mind filled with uncertainty and he made a pig\u2019s ear of his pass to Leroy San\u00e9. Guardiola, scarcely believing what he had just seen, looked close to the point of spontaneous combustion. Ultimately, though, City were the better side by some distance and there was only one brief spell, after the Arsenal substitute Alexandre Lacazette had made it 2-1, when the home side had a period of vulnerability. By the end there were ol\u00e9s from the crowd, shortly after the announcement that the brilliant, mesmeric De Bruyne had been named as the game\u2019s outstanding performer. Those ol\u00e9s are becoming the soundtrack to what is shaping up to be a record-breaking season. \u201cCan anyone stop them?\u201d Wenger asked afterwards. \u201cIt will be difficult this season.\u201d Wenger could not resist a spiky follow-up line about the standard of refereeing \u2013 \u201cIf they get decisions like that, at home, they will be unstoppable\u201d \u2013 and was entitled to complain that City\u2019s third goal was offside. Yet Arsenal look what they are: a side that has been drifting for too long, 13 years and counting since their last league title. \u201cHe wants to be blue,\u201d the home fans sang about Alexis S\u00e1nchez and Wenger could not deny it. It was, he said, a \u201chuge mental test\u201d for S\u00e1nchez to face the team he nearly joined in the last transfer window. S\u00e1nchez had a difficult afternoon and, on this evidence, he might not find it straightforward getting into City\u2019s starting XI if the transfer is resurrected in January. Francis Coquelin looked out of place as an experimental centre-half in a 3-4-2-1 formation and it was not until Ag\u00fcero\u2019s penalty that Lacazette came on to score with a right-foot finish, set up by Aaron Ramsey, to raise the possibility of an Arsenal comeback. Instead back came City, swarming all over their opponents before Jesus turned in Silva\u2019s pass while the Arsenal defence waited for offside to be given. The flag should have gone up but it was inches rather than yards \u2013 a bad decision, yes, but at this level it was startling to see the collective freeze from the visiting defence. De Bruyne took his goal beautifully, playing a one-two with Fernandinho before drilling a diagonal left-foot shot past Petr Cech. But that, too, was aided by the reluctance of every single Arsenal player, most notably Laurent Koscielny, to make a tackle or close the Belgian down. Wenger was unhappy about the penalty and claimed the standard of refereeing in the top division is going down year after year. These outbursts are nothing new after Arsenal defeats and, whatever Wenger might believe, the referee, Michael Oliver, was entitled to think Nacho Monreal had bundled Sterling over. It was debatable but most referees would have concluded it was a foul and Wenger, almost certainly, would have if it was the other way round. Ag\u00fcero\u2019s penalty went in off the post and, as City power on, Arsenal are becoming a speck in the distance."
"14||Vince Cable attacks RBS over mistreatment of small business customersSir Vince Cable has criticised the Royal Bank of Scotland boss, Ross McEwan, for his failure to show \u201cgenuine contrition\u201d over the bank\u2019s mistreatment of small business customers in the aftermath of the financial crisis. The Liberal Democrat leader also said the bailed-out bank must put aside more money \u2013 on top of the \u00a3400m already committed \u2013 to compensate firms affected by the bank\u2019s now defunct global restructuring group (GRG), in the five years after the 2008 banking crisis. In a strongly worded letter, seen by the Guardian, to the bank\u2019s chairman Howard Davies, Cable singled out McEwan for his response to an investigation into whether GRG caused financial distress to its customers. Instead of GRG helping to turn them around, businesses said they had been weighed down by debt and fees. \u201cI appreciate that Mr McEwan was not personally responsible for what happened at the time since he joined several years later. However, he is now responsible for putting right the mistakes of the past,\u201d Cable wrote. \u201cMr McEwan has repeatedly given, at best, qualified apologies for what happened. \u201cRBS must now set aside a realistic sum of compensation and the \u00a3400m identified a year ago is clearly unrealistic given the number and scale of the companies affected and their potential direct and consequential losses,\u201d Cable added. \u201cThe group must also do more to identify and hold to account the senior individuals responsible for the errors and abuses which occurred. Failing to do so will merely fuel corrosive cynicism about banks.\u201d Cable said comments by McEwan that he was tired of small businesses \u201cbadmouthing\u201d the bank and arguing that RBS \u201chad done nothing wrong in the vast majority of businesses we handled\u201d was the wrong attitude. He stopped short of calling for McEwan to quit, but said he and the bank, which is still 70% owned by the taxpayer, needed to do more to respond. \u201cFor now ... I believe the chief executive should be given the opportunity to do the right thing by showing genuine contrition on behalf of the bank he leads for its conduct in operating the GRG,\u201d Cable wrote. \u201cIf RBS is ever to be sold at a profit to the taxpayer, as it must be, it will have first to accept liabilities and then slowly rebuild its reputation as a trusted institution.\u201d RBS said it had not yet received the letter and would \u201crespond in due course\u201d. The RBS-GRG Business Action Group, which consists of more than 500 businesses that claim they were forced into financial distress by the bank\u2019s restructuring division, welcomed Cable\u2019s intervention. \u201cWe have long argued that RBS\u2019s compensations process is laughably inadequate, since it ignores the issue of consequential loss that drove so many of GRG\u2019s victims under,\u201d a group spokesman said. \u201cRoss McEwan needs to stop moaning, face up to RBS\u2019s liabilities and make a proper financial provision for the misconduct of GRG and its rogue bankers. He should do so for the good of his own shareholders as well as the thousands who lost their jobs and businesses.\u201d Cable referred the matter to the city watchdog, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), in 2013 when he was the business secretary. His criticism echoed that of Andrew Bailey, chief executive of the FCA, who told MPs earlier this week it was \u201cunfortunate\u201d that RBS had not accepted some of the findings of an independent investigation. \u201cThe report is strongly critical of RBS. It is frankly unfortunate that RBS has not accepted that more readily. I think they should do,\u201d Bailey told the Treasury committee. The committee published a letter from McEwan in which he said the bank \u201cdeeply regret the mistakes we have made in the past\u201d but disputed parts of the review, which has not been published."
"17||Sir John Soane's museum recreates architect's vision of pharaoh's tombWhen the architect Sir John Soane finally managed to install his greatest treasure in his extraordinary combined home, studio and museum in London, he threw a three-day party to celebrate. The sarcophagus of the pharaoh Seti I, carved from a single vast block of translucent alabaster, cost Soane \u00a32,000 after the British Museum turned it down as too expensive. Getting in the 3,000-year-old relic, the size of a small boat and weighing several tonnes, involved knocking down a sizeable chunk of his back wall, and demolishing his unfortunate housekeeper\u2019s sitting room. Over three days and nights, almost 900 people trooped through his rooms and into the basement renamed \u201cthe Sepulchral Chamber\u201d, where the sarcophagus glowed eerily, lit by candles placed inside. The museum recently recreated the experiment, and deputy director Helen Dorey recalled the extraordinary effect when the whole block lit up like a lantern, and the thousands of tiny human figure hieroglyphics carved into every inch of stone seemed to flicker and move. \u201cIt was a truly shiver down the spine moment,\u201d she said. In 1824 it was a sensation. The Morning Post praised the \u201cliberal and patriotic\u201d owner and reported: \u201cWe believe that there is no country in Europe which would not be proud of possessing such a rarity and that the Emperor of Russia, in particular, would rejoice to obtain it.\u201d Dorey, who has been researching the celebrations from the meticulous accounts preserved in Soane\u2019s archives, found that all Soane\u2019s apprentices were set to writing invitations for a week. Extra waiting staff were hired and the guests got through six pounds of tea and 31 pounds of sugar over the three nights, quantities of brandy, ale and porter, and cakes ordered in from Robinson and Todd\u2019s in nearby Fleet Street. Just lighting the outside of the building cost almost \u00a325, with hundreds more oil and candle lamps hired for the interiors. The painter Benjamin Robert Haydon managed to get into one of the receptions where he literally bumped into JMW Turner and the poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge. He arrived in time to witness the grand entrance of the Duke of Sussex, \u201csqueezing and wheezing along the narrow passage, driving all the women before him like a Blue-Beard, and putting his royal head into the coffin, added his wonder to the wonder of the rest\u201d. The sarcophagus was discovered in October 1817 in the monumental tomb of Seti, one of the most elaborate in the Valley of the Kings, by an extraordinary character, Giovanni Belzoni. Belzoni was a circus strongman \u2013 born in Italy, he called himself the Patagonian Sampson \u2013 turned self-taught engineer and finally Egyptologist. An exhibition at the Sir John Soane\u2019s museum celebrating the bicentenary of his discovery includes objects from the tomb and illustrations of the paintings covering every surface, which were still blazing with colour when he found them. Curator Joanna Tinworth can\u2019t prove that Belzoni and Soane ever met, but the architect took a keen interest in the discovery even before he bought the sarcophagus. Belzoni now has a dodgy reputation, seen as little better than a tomb robber, but Tinworth has a soft spot for him. \u201cHe genuinely had a great interest in Egypt and he thought he was saving and preserving those treasures by taking them out of the country. And when others were excavating with explosives, he was going in with pick and shovel. It\u2019s not how we would ever do things now, but I don\u2019t think he was ill-intentioned.\u201d"
"2||Barbarians run-out reminds players why they fell in love with the gameGeorge Bridge, full-back for Canterbury, the Crusaders, and now the Barbarians was listed as being 22 years old in the match programme. But in the evening after Saturday\u2019s match he seemed much younger than that. He was wearing conspicuously new clothes, slacks, jacket and a flat cap that he had bought earlier in the week, and they seemed to fit him too well, as if he had just been dressed by his mum for his school photograph. After the match he waited patiently off to one side while the press interviewed the All Blacks, smiling all the while. It was a big goofy grin, and he did not seem any more aware of it than he did of the fresh blue bruise on the bridge of his nose. Bridge was a happy man. He was meant to be in Bali this week, on holiday with his mates. He got the phone call from the Barbarians on the Saturday before the match. So he scrapped his travel plans, packed his kit, and got on a flight to London instead. In the changing room at half-time, when the Barbarians were leading 17-10, their head coach, Robbie Deans, turned to Bridge and said \u201cThis is better than Bali, isn\u2019t it?\u201d Bridge agreed with him, it sure was. He said later that he felt like a little kid again, playing on a frosty morning back in Gisborne, where he grew up. It could have been an English player in Bridge\u2019s place, out playing the All Blacks in front of 60,000 fans at Twickenham, if only the Premiership clubs had not reneged on an earlier agreement and refused to release anyone for the game. After the match, Deans had a dig at them. \u201cIt\u2019s a great shame for them,\u201d he said, talking about the players who had missed out, \u201cbecause it\u2019s a great opportunity for them to experience the level.\u201d A year from now, Deans pointed out, England finally have a Test against the All Blacks themselves, at this same ground. So this, he said, \u201chas been an opportunity missed, as some of those 23 could have had a taste\u201d. Instead, England\u2019s best players were resting up and a lot of the rest were slogging away in the Anglo-Welsh Cup. Bridge and a handful of other young Kiwis, like Richie Mo\u2019unga, Vince Aso, Atu Moli, got the benefit of it. It is not just the young players who gain from playing for the Baa-Baas, and Bridge was not the only one with a grin after the game was over. Andy Ellis, who led the side from scrum-half, played the last of his 28 Tests for the All Blacks in 2015. He is 33 now, and winding down his career in Japan. He had a ball. \u201cWhen I moved to Japan, all the pressures of New Zealand rugby were gone and I started enjoying my rugby again,\u201d Ellis said before the game. \u201cThat is one of the reasons why I\u2019m so excited to be involved with the BaaBaas too. It\u2019s the reason why I played rugby \u2013 to play rugby with my mates.\u201d Talk about player welfare always dwells on the physical costs, the rips, tears, twists and concussions, but the mental strain of playing the game can be just as damaging, and far harder to understand and treat. Ellis certainly is not the only player who has found himself ground down by the treadmill of professional rugby, the constant pressure put on players by clubs and coaches. Julian Savea has been suffering, too. He and the All Blacks coach, Steve Hansen, have both spoken about how he seemed to have fallen out of love with the sport. One of the reasons Hansen was keen for Savea to come and play for the Barbarians was because he hoped it would help get his enthusiasm back. Savea did not have a great game for the Barbarians, but he did have a great time. \u201cIt was awesome,\u201d he said, \u201ca great experience.\u201d \u201cThis is the way rugby should be,\u201d Deans said. \u201cIt\u2019s a players\u2019 game and sometimes coaches forget that.\u201d If the coaches forget it, you wonder if some of the executives ever knew it to begin with. Of course the Premiership clubs didn\u2019t release their English players for this match. They are the same people who want to shorten the Six Nations, cut down the length of the Lions tour, and extend their own season, despite the fact that so many of their own players are opposed to those changes. And the more they push the sport in that direction, the more irrelevant the Barbarians seem, and, conversely, the more important they become. There were no great stakes riding on Saturday\u2019s match, the play was loose, the refereeing casual, the crowd quiet. It was, everyone agreed, a \u201cfestival\u201d game. Before long, a lot of people will probably have forgotten it even took place. But Bridge will not have, he and the rest of these Barbarians will remember the match for a long while yet, if their hangovers allow them, as a little reminder of why they fell in love with the sport in the first place, back when it was a game and not a job. In the modern era, those Barbarian values are becoming vanishingly rare, and that only makes them more precious."
"7||'Marvellous friends': Trump and Abe get into swing of things on golf courseDonald Trump managed to stay out of the diplomatic rough on the first leg of his five-nation visit to Asia. Whether or not he repeated the feat during an afternoon round of golf with Japan\u2019s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, on Sunday is less clear. The leaders were joined at the Kasumigaseki country club \u2013 no longer a bastion of sexism \u2013 by Japan\u2019s best professional golfer, Hideki Matsuyama, but did not keep score, according to officials, and the media were not privy to their exertions on the fairways. After embarking on their golf diplomacy, accompanied by former world No 1 Ernie Els, in Palm Beach earlier this year, Trump and Abe were at pains to put on a united front, putting to one side potential hazards lying in wait for the president in South Korea, China and South-east Asia. From the moment Trump arrived at Yokota airbase, Abe pushed the symbolism behind their countries\u2019 \u201cunshakeable\u201d alliance, and went out of his way to accommodate his picky guest. Sushi was kept off the lunch menu, Trump having given a colourful verdict on the Japanese dish in the book Lost Tycoon: The Many Lives of Donald J Trump. Instead, they dined on hamburgers \u2013 made with American beef \u2013 accompanied by what looked like glasses of cola. They held up white baseball caps bearing the message \u201cDonald and Shinzo Make Alliance Even Greater\u201d, a clear nod to Trump\u2019s 2016 campaign slogan. There was only one slightly awkward moment \u2013 a clumsy fist-bump at the start of their nine holes of golf. Although Trump is said to be the better golfer, Abe has taken their shared love of the sport the furthest since he presented the then president-elect with a gold-plated driver in their first meeting in New York a year ago. Trump, whose honesty on the golf course has been questioned, couldn\u2019t resist a self-regarding comment on the plane to Japan when, lauding Matsuyama\u2019s driving prowess, he reminded reporters that he, too, hits the ball \u201cpretty long\u201d. He did, however, concede that the Japanese player was likely to out-distance him at the tee-off. \u201cIf I come back and say I was longer than him, don\u2019t believe it.\u201d Abe tweeted: Trump posted a short video clip of himself: \u201cGolf clubs are where we can both relax and share our real feelings, and we took our time having a frank talk about all sorts of difficult topics,\u201d Abe said. \u201cI think President Trump enjoyed it very much. I had a very good time, too.\u201d The red carpet treatment appeared to have had the desired effect as Trump and Abe prepared for a casual teppanyaki dinner \u2013 again featuring beef, only this time from the Tajima region of Japan \u2013 and a performance of the viral hit Pen-Pineapple-Apple Pen. \u201cThe relationship is really extraordinary. We like each other and our countries like each other,\u201d Trump said. \u201cAnd I don\u2019t think we\u2019ve ever been closer to Japan than we are right now.\u201d His next two destinations \u2013 South Korea and China \u2013 are expected to pose bigger challenges on the two defining issues of the trip: North Korea and trade. It remains to be seen if Matsuyama, who had humbly speculated that he might not be \u201cgood enough\u201d to play golf with Trump, has set himself up for the same ribbing Els received after he escorted Abe and Trump around the president\u2019s course in Florida in February. If he does, the mild-mannered world No 4 is unlikely to react in the same way as the South African, who told the Wall Street Journal: \u201cA lot of my own friends were not for him. They kind of needled me a little bit, saying I was a suck-up. I just said, \u2018Go eff yourself. I played with the president and you haven\u2019t.\u2019\u201d"
"0||Manchester City v Arsenal: Premier League \u2013 as it happenedCity were not at their fluent best here but it is perhaps a sign of how far they\u2019ve come that we might expect more from a game in which they beat Arsenal with room to spare. For Arsenal it\u2019s the same old story \u2013 they never really looked like pulling off an upset, as they rarely do on the road to the best teams in the Premier League. That\u2019s all from me, thanks for reading \u2013 and may I point you in the direction of Chelsea v Manchester United. Bye! The whistle blows and City march on, now eight points clear of Manchester United and Spurs and 12 ahead of Arsenal, Liverpool and Chelsea. 90+4 min Mesut Ozil barges unnecessarily into Delph and it sums up Arsenal\u2019s day that it is one his most notable contributions. 90+1 min Gundogan takes a hit this time, from Wilshere, who might be lucky not see yellow. This has been a frustrating afternoon for Arsenal. 89 min A free-kick to Man City in an attacking area, after Kolasinac clattered David Silva, who is handed man of the match by Alan Smith on Sky. The set piece comes to nothing. 88 min City steal it and charge. They work it quickly to De Bruyne and suddenly it\u2019s two against one. All he has to do is square the ball for Jesus to finish, but for once De Bruyne gets it wrong and hands the ball over to Koscielny. 86 min Silva does indeed come on, replacing Leroy Sane who gets a friendly clap on the chest from Pep Guardiola. 85 min Bernardo Silva is tucking his shirt in and receiving instructions from someone in a tracksuit holding a clipboard, the surest sign of an imminent substitution. 83 min \u2018What did you have for lunch\u2019 is my new favourite phrase. Though Morgan is right \u2013 several Arsenal defenders stood there with arms raised rather than reacting and it was a pretty ugly way to concede. 81 min Walker makes a typically surging run down the right but his arcing cross is overhit. A moment later Wilshere shows some nice touches on the ball and he\u2019s wiped out by Jesus as punishment. 79 min Wenger makes a couple of changes: Wilshere and Giroud go on, Iwobi and a fuming Xhaka come off. That decision... 77 min In fairness to Xhaka, who was booked in the aftermath of the goal, he stepped up cleverly to play Silva offside and it was probably one the assistant should have spotted. 76 min Sterling is replaced by Gundogan. Was Silva offside? That is the question Arsenal are asking and Xhaka has been booked for his protestations. Fernandinho found the Spaniard down the right of the box who was suddenly in acres. Arsenal arms went up but meanwhile Jesus reacted, charging into the six yard box to turn home Silva\u2019s cross. The replay shows... yes, he was slightly offside. 70 min The game is opening up a little \u2013 it feels like there is still something more to come. 69 min Sanchez cheekily finds Kolasinac on the overlap with a no-look pass, who finds Ozil but the Germany midfielder doesn\u2019t make anything of the opportunity. He is having one of those very quiet days. 67 min Brilliant by Cech, who slides across his goalline like a superhero to deny a low powerful strike from Gabriel Jesus, who had been lurking at the back post at the corner. Moments earlier Sane had slammed a close-range volley which was well blocked. City have turned it up a notch. 65 min Shocking that the \u00a350m striker with a brilliant goalscoring record might get a goal. He had been on less than 10 minutes, but why didn\u2019t he start? Suddenly they have one back \u2013 Lacazette is freed on the right side of the box, and takes one touch to control before firing a low shot past Ederson into the far corner. 62 min Gabriel Jesus has still not lost a single game in English football, a remarkable run of 27 games which probably isn\u2019t going to end this afternoon. I seem to remember Gareth Bale had the opposite run at Spurs. 61 min Sergio Aguero makes his way off and he doesn\u2019t look delighted by the decision. He trudges away to an ovation from the crowd, offering a little salute before handing over to Gabriel Jesus. 59 min Arsenal are having to commit higher up the field and it is resulting in some joy, pinching the ball in good positions. But they are struggling to make it count and subsequently City look like they might break at any moment. 57 min \u201cIs shoulder to shoulder not ok anymore, didn\u2019t see much wrong with the tackle for the penalty,\u201d emails Mel Lynam in Berlin. I thought it was a little more clumsy \u2013 and from behind \u2013 than just shoulder to shoulder. 56 min The first change of the match: Coquelin comes off and Lacazette replaces him, which presumably means Arsenal are switching to a back four. 55 min Ederson survives a potentially disastrous moment, dropping a routine catch behind him. He manages to turn and prevent the ball bouncing over his line before Ramsey cheekily pushes him into the goal and concedes a foul. 53 min The City fans find their voice and their team suddenly look in the mood. Silva tries one of those long arcing low passes which De Bruyne has pulled off a few times this season, but it\u2019s a touch overhit and he can\u2019t pick out Sterling on the opposite side. 51 min Assuming it was deliberate, De Bruyne just played one of the most extraordinary passes of the season, volleying a looping ball on the spin over his head to David Silva. It didn\u2019t matter much and it didn\u2019t get much attention, but it was mighty audacious. Chasing back after a ball over the top of the Arsenal defence, Monreal clatters into Sterling dribbling into the box who was about to have a clear sight of goal. It\u2019s a booking, and Sergio Aguero scores from the spot via the post. 48 min Penalty to Manchester City! 47 min The way Otamendi and Stones fizz passes through midfield to Silva and De Bruyne is brilliant to watch. This time Silva plays a first-time pass wide for Delph who advances down the left, but the move comes to nothing. Re our half-time Sterling discussion: Arsenal get things back under way at the Etihad. No changes by either side at the break. Alexis Sanchez, meanwhile, seems a way from the striker who scored 24 league goals last season. Watching a replay of that De Bruyne goal, it really was reminiscent of his strike against Chelsea, working a one-two at high speed before leathering his left foot through the ball into the right corner of the goal. Not brilliantly defended, admittedly, but yet another example of his supreme talent. A half-time email from Richard Harris: \u201cHow many years do you think it will be before pundits stop talking up Sterling\u2019s potential and conclude like most have now done with Walcott that he\u2019s never reached it?\u201d I think that might be a little harsh on a 22-year-old having a very good season so far. He was not quite at it in the first half but I wouldn\u2019t bet against him having a say in the second. De Bruyne\u2019s well-taken goal is the difference at the break. Arsenal have had their moments, but if Sterling and Sane had been a little more clinical in the final third City might have been out of sight. An interesting half to follow. 45 min And then out of nowhere Ramsey almost equalises! His low shot is well saved but Ederson at his near post, the sort that might not have been kept out last season. 44 min Silva fouls Iwobi in the middle of the pitch. It\u2019s all gone a bit quiet. 43 min A scrappy couple of minutes. Arsenal look the more likely to make one last chance before the break. 41 min Another Arsenal corner leads to another City counterattack. They might be safer kicking all set-pieces off for a City throw-in. 39 min Coquelin puts Monreal under pressure on the edge of Arsenal\u2019s box with an underhit pass. City pinch it and come forwards but Silva delivers a rare miss which ends up in the stands. 37 min I have been informed via Sandipto Dasgupta\u200f on Twitter that Guardiola\u2019s yellow ribbon is in support of Catalan political prisoners. On the pitch, meanwhile, City have another half chance but Koscielny does well to prevent Sane getting on the end of another one of those low flashing crosses, this time by Kyle Walker. 35 min Oh dear! This had to be 2-0 as De Bruyne, again, fed Sterling cleverly to set up a two on one in Arsenal\u2019s half. All Sterling had to do was square to Sane but he boomed the pass beyond his team-mate, to Guardiola\u2019s understandable ire on the touchline. 32 min That threat almost produces a second goal as De Bruyne feeds Silva under-lapping towards the byline, but Sterling decides to lurk on the penalty spot rather than gamble and can\u2019t get to the cross. 31 min The game has quietened down slightly. This isn\u2019t the rampant City we have come to take for granted in recent weeks but they seem in control and constantly simmering with threat. 30 min I have to admit this isn\u2019t something I know the answer to but perhaps someone reading does... 28 min Arsenal defend the initial corner but the second and third waves of attack quickly follow. Eventually Cech relieves the pressure, rushing off his line and sliding under Aguero to claim the ball. 27 min A moment later Sterling drifts in behind Monreal, who isn\u2019t have much fun so far, but the defender does get back to block the cross. Corner to City. 26 min De Bruyne evades Monreal with agility, raising a roar from the home crowd. He escapes down the right wing and tries an ambitious switch to Aguero and Sane on the far side, which in fairness is well within his abilities, but slightly overcooks it. 24 min Sanchez slides a lovely reverse pass into Ozil \u2013 lovely in terms of inventiveness, but not weight, and it runs too far allowing Ederson to rush out and collect. There are not many goalkeepers in the league better placed than him to do just that. 22 min \u201cOne man\u2019s \u2018under pressure\u2019 is another man\u2019s \u2018two handed shove in the back\u2019\u201d emails JR in Illinois. \u201cUpon replay you don\u2019t think Sterling should have had a penalty there in the 10th minute?\u201d I don\u2019t think there was enough in it for a penalty, personally, especially as a push from behind would surely have helped Sterling reach the ball which was just out of reach in front of him. It matters not now though. 20 min De Bruyne said in his pre-match interview that he took more satisfaction from an assist than a goal, but he looked like he enjoyed that one, celebrating exuberantly with just about every one of his team-mates in the corner. That\u2019s the second time he has opened the scoring in a big game this season with the accuracy and power of his weaker foot. The ball falls to De Bruyne and he slams a right-footed volley which Cech parries away well, but a few seconds later the Belgian is coming at the Arsenal defence again. He plays a fast one-two with Fernandinho and drags the ball on to his left foot before firing a low shot across Cech and into the corner. Wonderfully finished. 16 min The last couple of minutes might be a more accurate reflection of what\u2019s to come with all 11 Arsenal players camped deep in their own half, shuffling across to keep City out and waiting for them to spill possession. 14 min The replay of that Sterling chance shows just how close he came \u2013 a few inches \u2013 from toeing in the opening goal. If we are being hyper-critical, perhaps Sane should have taken a bit of speed off his pass. 12 min Arsenal have looked the better side so far, but Silva and De Bruyne are just starting to get their first sniffs of possession in those pockets either side of Xhaka and Ramsey. 10 min What a chance this is. Aguero controls a fizzed pass with his back to goal and spins to play in Sane perfectly. The winger slides a low cross across the six-yard box where Sterling has a tap-in but under a bit of pressure from the retreating Kolasinac he can\u2019t quite reach it and the ball bobbles harmlessly wide. 9 min Another concerning moment for City as Ramsey does excellently to pinch the ball from Fernandinho. Ozil picks up possession in the box, shifts it on to his left and slams a low shot a yard or so wide. 8 min Sterling tries to dance his way into the box but he\u2019s surrounded by black shirts who quickly break. Rapid counterattack appears the order of the day for both sides. This one ends when Stones claps through the side of Sanchez, and the free-kick to Arsenal, perhaps 35 yards out, is wasted. 6 min Coquelin, from his new station in the middle of defence, chops a pass to Bellerin advancing down the right. Arsenal work the ball nicely into the middle and City have to scramble via a John Stones challenge, conceding a corner. It comes to nothing but a moment later Kolasinac earns another corner when his cross is blocked. This one is dealt with just as simply, but it\u2019s a positive start by the visitors. 4 min Arsenal\u2019s first sight of goal falls to Iwobi after a free-kick was headed clear to the forward lurking on the edge of the City box. He swipes at a volley which flies into the Etihad crowd. 3 min Arsenal have begun with a high press with Sanchez leading the line, but as soon as City get out of their half the Gunners are retreating in numbers. I still find it slightly baffling that Wenger would leave \u00a350m Alexandre Lacazette on the bench for such a game, but there we are. 2 min Arsenal win a corner and it is the platform for City\u2019s first attack, flashing forwards in numbers on the break. De Bruyne finds Aguero who probably should hit the target but fires just over from a tight-ish angle. 1 min Interesting \u2013 Arsenal starting with a back three, with Coquelin in the centre of defence. That is not necessarily a sentence to inspire hope. Sergio Aguero fires a pass back to Fernandinho and Arsenal go chasing after it. A minute\u2019s silence ahead of Remembrance Day, beautifully observed. \u201cIt\u2019s unlikely that there are any Arsenal fans among that 10%,\u201d emails Charles Antaki. \u201cAt least, not as actively supporting the other side. But yes, there will be many who have consigned this one already to the memory-hole, and are simply praying to be spared crushing, abject humiliation. In other words, the usual pre-match jitters.\u201d This is a lovely touch by Manchester City \u2013 Sergio Aguero is handed a nice shimmering blue boot trophy to celebrate his feat of breaking the club\u2019s goalscoring record. The players shake hands and kick-off is imminent. This presenting format unnerves me. Pep Guardiola speaks! And immediately qualifies his bold opening gambit. \u201cToday we play one of the best teams in the Premier League from the last 10, 15, 20 years, so we need a good performance. You let them play, they can play without doubt, with Ozil, Ramsey, Xhaka, Alexis. They are fast. They change today, with four at the back.\u201d Was that a surprise, Guardiola is asked. \u201cA little bit, yeah,\u201d he says with the rueful smile of a man who has spent all week preparing the humiliation of a three-man defence. \u201cBut most of the teams play with that system so it\u2019s not a problem.\u201d Regarding Arsene Wenger\u2019s intriguing notion that 90% of the Premier League is behind Arsenal today, keen mathematician David Flynn emails. \u201cSadly, the 10% of people not supporting Arsenal today are City fans and a large portion of Arsenal fans.\u201d Sky are showing a chat between Jamie Redknapp and Kevin De Bruyne in the Tactics Truck. These things can be a bit overblown but it is genuinely fascinating to hear De Bruyne articulate his thoughts on the pitch. He says he watches a lot of NBA and admires LeBron James\u2019s emphasis on the team, and insists he enjoys pulling off a beautiful assist more than scoring a goal. Full-time at Wembley... Ars\u00e8ne Wenger speaks! \u201cThe main thing is always to adapt. They are a team who likes to have the ball so the counterattack will be important. Today 90% of the Premier League will be behind us because nobody wants to see one team run away at the top so early in the season.\u201d So it looks like Arsene Wenger has switched to a back four, abandoning the in-vogue back-three which I\u2019m fairly sure was only an elaborate ploy to look relevant, like when my mum bought an iPod. As Graham Fulcher emails: \u201cSo the team for which Wenger unveiled the 3 man central defence becomes the team against which he first drops it.\u201d Manchester City (4-1-2-3): Ederson; Walker, Otamendi, Stones, Delph; Fernandinho; De Bruyne, Silva (c); Sterling, Sane, Aguero Subs: Bravo, Mangala, Gundogan, Bernardo, G Jesus, Danilo, Yaya Toure Arsenal (4-5-1): Cech; Bellerin, Koscielny, Monreal, Kolasinac; Coquelin, Ramsey, Xhaka, Ozil, Iwobi; Sanchez Subs: Macey, Debuchy, Elneny, Wilshere, Walcott, Lacazette, Giroud For a club who never seem more than one good hiding away from a crisis, and who have an abysmal recent record on the road against top-six rivals, you suspect there are plenty of places Arsenal would rather visit this afternoon than the Etihad. Manchester City are playing a brand* of football not seen before in the Premier League, new levels of speed and precision which today conjure images of a harrowed Granit Xhaka standing hands on hips having been nutmegged by Kevin De Bruyne in the buildup to City\u2019s sixth (a blast into the bottom corner by Leroy San\u00e9 celebrated with a wagging finger). So is there any cause for Arsenal optimism? They have certainly perked up since Troy Deeney questioned their cojones, winning four and drawing one of the five matches since, albeit with a persistent undercurrent of vulnerability. Aaron Ramsey and Mesut \u00d6zil have found form while Alexis S\u00e1nchez may have some extra motivation given the opponent. And let\u2019s not forget they are the last team to have beaten City, in the FA Cup semi-final in April. It is a chance for Arsenal to show they are still part of the reckoning and can produce something on the road against the top six. City, of course, have the supreme qualities to dismiss the notion of a top six altogether. Kick-off: 2.15pm GMT *Awful word. Sorry. There will be other awful words because I\u2019m quite tired after my late-night Uber driver initially took me within a few hundred yards of my house, admittedly, but on the wrong side of a large river (Thames) which took 45 minutes to circumnavigate culminating in a 4am bedtime. Please view the ensuing collection of awful words and typos as a postmodern art installation mirroring society\u2019s flaws or the Brexit talks or something. Thank you."
"5||Ministers 'could be in contempt of parliament over Brexit papers'Labour is to warn ministers on Monday that they risk being held in contempt of parliament if they do not immediately release dozens of papers outlining the economic impact of Brexit. The government conceded last week that it had to publish the 58 studies covering various parts of the economy after the move was supported in a Labour opposition motion that was passed unanimously on Wednesday. While normal opposition motions are advisory, Labour presented this one as a \u201chumble address\u201d, a rare and antiquated procedure which the Speaker, John Bercow, advised was usually seen as binding. The leader of the Commons, Andrea Leadsom, said on Thursday that the government accepted the motion as binding, and that \u201cthe information will be forthcoming\u201d. However, she gave no timescale \u2013 the government has previously said it will respond to opposition motions within 12 weeks \u2013 and indicated some elements of the papers would need to be redacted to avoid \u201cdisclosing information that could harm the national interest\u201d. The Labour motion called for the papers to be released immediately to the Brexit select committee, which has a majority of Conservative MPs, and which would then decide what elements should not be published more widely. The shadow Brexit secretary, Keir Starmer, has warned that Labour will refer the matter to Bercow over possible contempt if the studies are not passed to the committee before parliament\u2019s one-week recess begins on Tuesday. The parliamentary rulebook, known as Erskine May after its 19th-century author, says actions that obstruct or impede the Commons \u201cin the performance of its functions, or are offences against its authority or dignity, such as disobedience to its legitimate commands\u201d be can viewed as contempt. MPs held in contempt can be asked to apologise, suspended or even expelled by their fellows. Offenders can also theoretically be confined to a room in the Big Ben clock tower, although this power has not been used since 1880. Labour is confident Bercow supports their contention the papers should be released soon, citing an answer the Speaker gave during Wednesday\u2019s debate to the Tory MP Sarah Wollaston. Bercow said: \u201cIf the honourable lady is asking me whether I envisage this being something that needs to be deliberated on over a period of several days, the answer is no.\u201d Hilary Benn, the Labour leader of the Brexit select committee, wrote to the Brexit secretary, David Davis, on Friday seeking to gain access to the studies as soon as possible. Labour has sought for months to secure the release of the studies, which cover the great majority of the UK economy. The reluctance of ministers has prompted speculation they are wary of sharing them because of the gloomy assessments they contain. The Labour motion was passed unanimously after the government said it would not oppose the measure, a tactic it has taken several times recently to ward off likely rebellions by Tory MPs. Starmer said in a statement that ministers had \u201cwasted months sidelining Parliament and keeping businesses in the dark\u201d. He said: \u201cLabour\u2019s victory over the government last week means we can finally have greater transparency over the impact Brexit could have on jobs and the economy. \u201cBut we need ministers to act urgently on this issue by handing over the economic impact assessments to the Brexit select committee. That is why I am urging the government to release the papers before parliament rises on Tuesday. If ministers fail to act then we will have no choice but to raise this matter with the Speaker of the Commons.\u201d Meanwhile, the governor of the Bank of England, Mark Carney, has said the Brexit referendum has stalled Britain\u2019s growth at a time when global conditions mean it should be booming \u2013 and warned that the Bank would not be able to intervene to stimulate growth if a bad deal pushed inflation higher. Carney said: \u201cSince the referendum, business investment has picked up, but not any of the extent one would have expected, given how strong the world is and easy financial conditions are. It should really be booming and it\u2019s just growing.\u201d Speaking on ITV\u2019s Peston on Sunday, Carney said investment had been deterred by uncertainty over the eventual deal. \u201cThe Brexit uncertainty is reinforcing something that started in 2008. Productivity is going to pick up over the next couple of years but not to the degree of the past, and it\u2019s that Brexit effect which is weighing on it.\u201d He said productivity should have started rising in line with global trends in the past two years but had flatlined after the referendum was announced. Asked if a failure to strike a post-Brexit trade deal would see growth fall while full membership of the customs unions and single market would see it improve, Carney replied: \u201cYes \u2013 the short answer is yes.\u201d He warned that the Bank would not have any flexibility to cut interest rates without a good Brexit deal, due to its responsibilities to keep inflation down. \u201cIf we got a worst-case deal, growth would go down and inflation would rise.\u201d"
"0||J\u00fcrgen Klopp\u2019s flexible thinking ensures Liverpool overwhelm West HamJ\u00fcrgen Klopp can occasionally not answer the question posed to him, and he was at it again after Liverpool\u2019s 4-1 victory against West Ham United. Asked by a reporter to assess the contributions of Sadio Man\u00e9 and Mohamed Salah, both of whom were excellent on a chilly evening in east London, Klopp decided instead to tell \u201cthe story of the game\u201d, a blow\u2011by\u2011blow account of proceedings that lasted for four minutes. It was a somewhat rambling response but, as is often the case with Klopp, also illuminating, and in this instance no more so than when the German spoke about Liverpool\u2019s tactical plan for this fixture. \u201cWe changed the system,\u201d he said. \u201cThe 4-4-2, which looked from the beginning a very offensive line-up, we had a different idea, we wanted to defend deeper, more compact.\u201d The explanation caught the attention not only because of the insight it offered but also because it pointed towards a potentially significant evolution in Liverpool\u2019s development. Here was a new system deployed with the intent of making the team hard to break down \u2013 \u201cdefend deeper\u201d, \u201ccompact\u201d; words you do not often hear from a manager renowned for setting up his side to be on the front foot from the outset. That has sometimes been Liverpool\u2019s undoing under Klopp, seen most obviously in their recent defeat to Tottenham Hotspur, but here there was no chance of a repeat \u2013 partly due to the opposition being glaringly inferior but also because of Liverpool\u2019s out-of-possession shape; two good old-fashioned banks of four, close together, cautious. Compact. When Liverpool then pressed and countered, it was not only fast but also imaginative. Their shape went to a 4-2-4 in a blink of an eye, even sometimes a 2-4-4 with the full-backs, Joe Gomez and Alberto Moreno, lined up alongside the two central midfielders, Georginio Wijnaldum and Emre Can, as Liverpool\u2019s front four of Man\u00e9, Roberto Firmino, Salah and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain went for the kill, often rotating positions as they did so. During the first half in particular, West Ham were left confused and overrun in a manner that bore the hallmarks of Borussia Dortmund at their peak under Klopp. It would be foolish to get carried away \u2013 this Liverpool side are not yet that Dortmund side and West Ham really were poor, delivering the type of display that makes it impossible to see Slaven Bilic continuing as manager. Nevertheless, Liverpool\u2019s approach was striking and came at a notable time. For it was exactly 12 months ago \u2013 Sunday 6 November 2016, to be precise \u2013 that they last topped the Premier League, having beaten Watford 6-1 at Anfield. That was meant to mark lift-off for Klopp\u2019s team but instead they slipped to second after their next fixture and have not returned to the summit since, with this campaign marked by the type of results and displays that suggest the team are going backwards under the man they hired 25 months ago. The statistics bear that out. After the Watford game, which was their 11th of the 2016-17 season, Liverpool had 26 points, had scored 30 goals and conceded 14. At the same stage of this campaign they have 19 points, have scored 21 goals and conceded 17. According to Opta, they are also down in other areas, including possession (59.5% this season compared to 61.2% last), tackles success rate (18.1% compared to 19.1%), and big-chance conversion (46.7% compared to 60.7%). And 12 months on from being leaders, Liverpool are sixth and 12 points behind the pace-setters, Manchester City. That already looks an insurmountable gap for a club craving a first championship since 1990. Hence scepticism regarding the job Klopp is doing, yet given the way City have begun it is unlikely any side will stop them claiming the title. Also, it should be remembered Klopp is navigating his side through a Champions League as well as domestic programme this season, and sitting top of Group E with eight points after four fixtures, Liverpool look well placed to progress to the knockout stages. Then there is the team. Deficiencies remain, and in that regard the failure to acquire another centre-back during the summer remains naive bordering on negligent. But overall since Klopp arrived, Liverpool have purchased well and in Salah have arguably the signing of the season. The Egyptian has not only provided pace and energy since arriving from Roma for \u00a336.9m but also goals, with the two he got at West Ham taking his tally to 12 in 17 appearances. This is a winger, remember. Man\u00e9, who assisted Salah\u2019s two goals, with Jo\u00ebl Matip and Oxlade-Chamberlain also getting on the scoresheet, looks up to speed after his earlier than expected return from injury and with Philippe Coutinho and Adam Lallana expected to return after the international break, Liverpool will only become more dangerous going forward. From a defensive point of view, it should also be noted that this is a team that, relatively, do not concede many chances. So it is not all bad, with the tactics deployed by Klopp on Saturday hinting at the next stage of a plan being put in place. Liverpool may not be where they want to be, but neither are they necessarily too far off."
"18||Why llamas are the new unicorns (just don\u2019t mention the spitting)November can be a chilly, soul-sapping time. Not only is it dark at 5pm, but, most importantly, you have no idea what the next whimsical animal trend is. What on earth are you going to festoon your cushions with? Fret no more \u2013 it\u2019s llamas. Yes, it\u2019s (finally) time to say goodbye to ubiquitous unicorns \u2013 one-horned, prancing, glittery, rainbow-covered idiots \u2013 and wave hello to your new friends. The South American domesticated camelids are ideal for the fashion crowd and social media obsessives alike. Not as relentlessly pink as flamingos, or as fishy as mermaids, they\u2019re cuter than pugs, thanks to their shaggy coats, funny ears and expressive \u201csmiles\u201d. Even better, their exotic origins mean they pair perfectly with on-trend cacti, mountain ranges and bright hues. In short, they are perfectly placed to be plastered across clothing, soft furnishings, homeware and absolutely everything, until your eyes bleed and llamas dance in your dreams. Llama shower curtain anyone? Go on. Llama doormat? It\u2019s a must-have. Even the word \u201cllama\u201d is on point \u2013 rhyming with the slogan-friendly drama, pyjama, and Obama. Alternatively, if you\u2019re George at Asda, you could simply festoon jumpers with \u201cFa La La La Llama\u201d, which may sound like word salad, but is, according to the supermarket chain, \u201ca great way to upgrade traditional Christmas knitwear\u201d. Llamas may be about to hit the big time, but they have been bubbling under for a while. Fans of BBC Radio 4 soap The Archers will know that Ambridge culture vulture Lynda Snell has two llamas, Constanza and Salieri. Instagram account Llama With No Drama (@llamawithnodrama) has 100,000 followers (spoiler alert \u2013 not a real llama), and llamas are a wedding trend (although at this point, what isn\u2019t?). Llama therapy is also a thing, and honestly, it sounds like the best therapy ever. If you live in Portland, Oregon or Vancouver, you could combine the two and hire a pair of therapy llamas dressed as a bride and groom for your wedding. That\u2019s if you don\u2019t mind being pushed to the floor and trampled as your guests rush to marvel at a llama in a veil. So go on, get stuck in. Buy a llama pencil case. Just don\u2019t mention the spitting."
"11||Carles Puigdemont: what will the Belgian authorities do next?By 9.17am CET Monday morning \u2013 24 hours after Carles Puigdemont and his four ministers handed themselves in to Belgium\u2019s federal public prosecutor \u2013 an investigating judge must decide whether to arrest the deposed president of Catalonia and his colleagues under Belgian law. The judge could then decide to release the politicians anyway, but with conditions. If an arrest warrant is issued by Monday morning, a file on the case will be submitted to the pretrial chamber of the court of first instance. The court must then decide within 15 days from the issuing of the Belgian arrest warrant whether the European arrest warrant issued by the Spanish government shall be executed. Any of the five could then appeal the decision of the court. The court of appeal has 15 days to take a decision. A further appeal to the court of cassation is then possible, if any of the politicians want to challenge of the court of appeal. It, in turn, has 15 days to give a decision. Only once this process is complete will Puigdemont, Maria Aleu Serret, Antoni Oliveres Comin, Lluis Gordi Puig and Clara Obiols Ponsati, be deported to Spain to face legal action there. The most likely argument from the Catalan politicians\u2019 lawyers will be that the charges made by the Spanish government, in particular that of sedition, do not exist in Belgian law. This would be grounds to dismiss the European arrest warrant. The lawyers may also argue that the Spanish judiciary is not sufficiently independent, a line of attack that is less likely to be successful."
"14||Not just for over-55s! M&S chairman says chain needs younger clothingThe new Marks &amp; Spencer chairman Archie Norman has told senior managers that the retailer needs to cut clothing prices and that too much of its fashion is aimed at the over-55s. During a recent store visit, Norman, who was in charge at Asda when it launched its George clothing ranges, told staff that M&amp;S needed to attract women in their thirties as well as women in their fifties, according to an internal document seen by the Guardian. The internal report said that the famed business troubleshooter, who is two months into his post at M&amp;S, criticised major aspects of the chain\u2019s clothing and food ranges during the visit. Norman\u2019s observations included that its entry clothing prices were not low enough and that it was less fashionable than Zara. The choice of Norman as chairman was always expected to be a catalyst for change at the 133-year-old retailer where profits are going backwards despite clinging on to its crown as the UK\u2019s biggest clothing business. His views are expected to help shape the chain\u2019s evolving turnaround strategy. On Wednesday, the M&amp;S chief executive, Steve Rowe is due to update the City on first-half trading and, with Norman\u2019s input, is expected to announce a more aggressive shake-up of its store estate than the 30 closures announced last year as part of a plan to close 10% of its clothing floorspace. Pre-tax profits are expected to be down more than 10% at \u00a3201m for the six months to the end of September. Norman, who is best known for turning Asda around in the 1990s, told managers there was a need for \u201curgent focus on getting the opening price-points right\u201d after scrutinising clothing on sale, according to the document. M&amp;S also needed to pull in younger shoppers, he told staff, as it was \u201cbuying too much for the over-55 customer\u201d when it needed to \u201cattract the 35+ customer back\u201d. Norman is said to have complained that the retailer\u2019s clothing buying cycles were too long and that its infrastructure and IT was \u201ctoo dated\u201d which will surprise investors after a multibillion-pound overhaul under the previous management team which included a \u00a3200m investment in a state-of-the-art automated warehouse in Castle Donington, Leicestershire. Since taking the helm 18 months ago, Rowe, who began his retail career aged 15 as a Saturday boy at M&amp;S\u2019s Croydon store in south London, has prioritised improving retail basics, such as cutting clothing prices and running fewer promotions. He criticised his predecessor, Marc Bolland, for pushing up clothing prices and then relying on promotions to boost trade. Last November, when Rowe set out a five-year turnaround plan for the business, he said 30 of M&amp;S\u2019s more than 300 \u201cfull-line\u201d stores \u2013 which sell clothing, homewares and food \u2013 would close. A further 45 sites would be downsized or converted into food-only stores. Analysts think these targets have become more aggressive with the input of Norman and will be revised this week. When his appointment was announced in May, Norman was frank about M&amp;S\u2019s troubled predicament pointing to \u201cconsiderable challenges ahead in a rapidly changing retail landscape\u201d. However, Norman brings a track record of success, having most recently turned around ITV, the UK\u2019s largest commercial broadcaster, and Australia\u2019s biggest retailer Coles. Asda had been viewed as a \u201cbasket case\u201d when Norman signed on as chief executive in 1991 but, eight years later, it was sold to US firm Walmart for 10 times its value when he took over. As non-executive chairman, Norman does not have direct management responsibilities at M&amp;S but his appointment, which was backed by frustrated shareholders, was always expected to be a major turning point for the underperforming retailer\u2019s strategy. Norman\u2019s no-nonsense management style involves telling staff the \u201cunvarnished truth\u201d while simultaneously plotting a new course. The new chairman\u2019s attention to detail is clear from the document as Norman is said to have even questioned how well its plethora of \u201cmustard\u201d coloured jumpers and accessories were selling given that other fashion retailers did not seem so keen on the colour. Marks &amp; Spencer said the author of the document had not been present at the store visit and that the document was put together only from the reports of those who were present. M&amp;S added that many of the critical points raised had been misinterpreted. According to the document, Norman also found fault with M&amp;S\u2019s food halls where the pace of trade has slowed this year. The report states that he highlighted how \u201ctoo many\u201d promotions were confusing customers and said the price of staples such as eggs, milk and bread needed to be brought into line with competitors. Shore Capital analyst Clive Black said the new management line up at M&amp;S was \u201cinteresting and potentially exciting\u201d for investors who have been urging management to make changes. \u201cWe view Messrs Norman and Rowe as a force for good for M&amp;S shareholders ... the business has been in a downward spiral of profitability for many years.\u201d"
"12||Our renter's republic is broken: one in five tenants can't pay the rentLurking beneath our current crisis lies a remembrance of the home as it once was for some: with a chicken in every pot and a car in every garage. This Levittown promised land, typifying the American Dream, is a powerful myth. It retrieves freedom from the abstract and delivers it into the living room, giving generations an aspiration for their efforts. In the old world, only aristocrats owned land. The United States, by contrast, emblematized the proud property-owning democracy. The foreclosure crisis kicked this version of the American Dream to the curb. After reaching a zenith of nearly 70% in 2004, homeownership rates have tumbled to just above 63% \u2013 roughly where they stood in 1965, when the statistic was first measured. For millennials, the pot, car and garage feel out of reach. This isn\u2019t necessarily a bad thing. The suburb, built on cheap land taken from Native Americans, segregation of African Americans and reckless combustion of fossil fuels is white privilege full throttle. But, in the waning days of white-picket-fence America, the burgeoning tenant class is faring worse than ever before. Rents are rising faster than wages and the math is catching up to us. Tenants who spend more than a third of their income on rent doubled from 24% in 1960 to 48% in 2015. A recent survey by Apartment List found that nearly one in five renters were unable to pay their rent in full in at least one of the past three months. Mounting costs present millions of families with a cruel choice: put food on the table, pay the medical bills and dress the kids, and in doing so risk losing the roof over your head. An estimated 3.7 million Americans \u2013 roughly the population of Los Angeles \u2013 have been evicted, according to Apartment List. Black renters \u2013 and specifically black women \u2013 are at greatest risk. Apartment List found that a staggering 12% of black households were threatened with eviction in the past year. In his Pulitzer prize-winning book, Evicted, Matt Desmond found that women from black neighborhoods made up less than 10% of Milwaukee\u2019s population but nearly a third of its evicted tenants. \u201cPoor black men were locked up. Poor black women were locked out,\u201d Desmond writes. As workers, artists and hustlers are priced out, homelessness soars in cities across the country. A 2017 survey counted 5,629 people living on the streets of the Bay Area\u2019s Alameda County, up 39% from just two years before. About half stay on the sidewalks and empty lots of my hometown, Oakland. Their tent camps, under Bart tracks and freeway overpasses, sum up the human cost of the housing crisis. With economic growth above 3%, professionals in strong coastal job markets have stayed afloat despite rising expenses, but the cyclical surge will inevitably slow, as it always does. With massive budget cuts and corporate tax breaks coming down the pike, we may not have reached the depth of this crisis. The Trump administration has proposed cutting $6.2bn from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, representing 13% of the agency\u2019s budget, thereby eliminating a major source of federal funding for Section 8 housing vouchers, homeless shelters, senior centers, daycares and building inspections, among other services. If passed, massive tax breaks for the 1% will compound the situation, reducing government revenues by $1.5tn over the next decade (roughly the cost of the Iraq war to date) while curbing demand for the low income housing tax credit. The tax credit is the country\u2019s most extensive affordable housing program. It provides corporations with a dollar-for-dollar tax write-off when they invest in affordable housing. A lower corporate tax rate means businesses will have less need for the credits at the same time that struggling state and local governments will have less capital to build and preserve the homes their residents desperately need. The administration\u2019s callous agenda, which places econometric values over human ones, will sow even more suffering. More than 11 million renting parents, students and workers already pay half or more of every dollar they earn to keep a roof over their heads. Moms and dads are working multiple jobs to make ends meet. Kids are shuttled from one unaffordable apartment to another. Children of the most unfortunate are going hungry. Every night, the down and out are seeking refuge under freeways and awnings in every city across the country. Without a home, everything else falls apart. All the while, the exorbitantly wealthy buy an umpteenth getaway in the Hamptons, Malibu or Mar-a-Lago. A land without home holds little promise. The twilight of the neighborly American Dream is upon us. In its place, we need a new and inclusive vision for a just home in our renter\u2019s republic."
"11||Alwaleed bin Talal: billionaire Saudi prince at centre of corruption purgeThe highest profile arrest in Saudi Arabia\u2019s anti-corruption purge is Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, a multibillionaire with huge investments in western firms. Prince Alwaleed, 62 and one of the world\u2019s richest men, has become one of the most familiar \u2013 and progressive \u2013 faces of Saudi in western media. While he has the lifestyle, jets, yacht and palace of a stereotypical Saudi billionaire, he has burnished a different image with interventions such as backing rights for Saudi women and denouncing President Trump on Twitter. The prince, a grandson of Saudi\u2019s first ruler and son of a Saudi finance minister, has an estimated net worth of $17bn (\u00a313bn), according to Forbes magazine \u2013 although he has sued them for underestimating his wealth. He came to prominence internationally as a major backer of Citigroup in the 1990s, and more so when continuing to back the firm as its value evaporated during the financial crisis. His investments extended into major media groups, with substantial stakes in Rupert Murdoch\u2019s NewsCorp, Apple, Time Warner, Twitter, and owning Rotana, whose TV channels broadcast widely across the Arab-speaking world. He has reduced his share in NewsCorp, but his clout was such that an intervention in 2011 in the wake of the phone-hacking scandal was seen as the coup de grace for News International\u2019s Rebekah Brooks, telling the Murdochs from his superyacht in Cannes that \u201cshe has to go\u201d. The investment group he set up in 1980, rebranded as the Kingdom Holding Company in 1996, also owns several global luxury hotel chains, as well as landmark properties such as London\u2019s Savoy Hotel and the George V in Paris. More recently it has backed Uber\u2019s rival ride-hailing firm Lyft. On Twitter in 2015 he called Donald Trump a \u201cdisgrace to America\u201d after the Republican candidate floated the idea of a ban on Muslims, and he urged Trump to quit the campaign. Trump, who responded in typically combative terms accusing the prince of wanting to control \u201cour politicians with daddy\u2019s money\u201d. Al-Waleed had in fact recently promised to donate all his wealth to charity \u2013 although he had years earlier purchased a yacht from Trump, and according to Forbes\u2019s profiles, shares the president\u2019s predilection for mocked-up Time magazine covers apparently featuring his exploits. His vision has not always matched reality: in a 2013 court case in London, a judge said that Prince Al-Waleed\u2019s evidence in the witness box was \u201cconfusing and too unreliable\u201d as he was forced to pay out in a business dispute. And while the prince already owns a Boeing 747 for his personal use, complete with throne, his ambition to have the world\u2019s biggest superjumbo, the A380, refitted with a concert hall, Turkish baths, luxury suites and a parking bay for his Rolls Royce, remains unfulfilled. Despite placing an order with manufacturer Airbus in 2007 at the Dubai airshow, the plane remains on the tarmac in Toulouse to this day. Prince Al-Waleed was an early advocate of women\u2019s employment in Saudi Arabia \u2013 hiring a female pilot for his jets, at a time when there was no prospect of women driving on the ground, and speaking out against the driving ban before the regime agreed this year to lift it. His wife, Ameera, who he divorced in 2013, usually appeared unveiled. Al-Waleed\u2019s international profile was extraordinary \u2013 frequently seen with top politicians, Wall Street executives and British royals. But he was an unofficial public face of the Saudi kingdom rather than a key part of the ruling elite \u2013 a status underlined by his arrest in King Salman\u2019s crackdown."
"0||Middlesbrough go fifth and heap more misery on managerless SunderlandSteve Gibson\u2019s pre-season pledge to \u201csmash the Championship\u201d has rung a little hollow in recent weeks but, little by little, Middlesbrough are starting to suggest promotion may be possible after all. At the end of an afternoon on which Marcus Tavernier\u2019s early goal kept managerless Sunderland stuck to the bottom of the table, Garry Monk\u2019s side rose to fifth. It was Boro\u2019s third win in eight days; perhaps their owner\u2019s boast was not quite as widely optimistic as latterly advertised. While Gibson invested more than \u00a350m in new players over the summer, their similarly relegated north-east neighbours spent a mere \u00a31.25m. That represented one of the reasons why Simon Grayson was sacked on Tuesday night, leaving Sunderland seeking a ninth manager in six years. They were under the caretaker control of Robbie Stockdale, once a Boro defender, and Billy McKinlay on Sunday. That pair presided over a bright beginning but their team never quite recovered from falling behind in the sixth minute. What turned out to be the decisive goal began with Stewart Downing issuing a reminder of the outstanding player he once was courtesy of a sublime reverse pass dispatched in Martin Braithwaite\u2019s direction. All that remained was for Braithwaite, excellent throughout, to deliver a square ball across the area which was met by Tavernier who, having evaded Billy Jones, volleyed past Robbin Ruiter from close range. Regarded as \u201cthe new Downing\u201d by many on Teesside, Tavernier is an 18-year-old England U-19 international left winger. Yet another highly promising graduate of Boro\u2019s excellent academy, he has now scored twice in his last four first-team appearances. If an apparent inability to stop conceding goals played a big part in costing Grayson his job, Sunderland\u2019s attacking department have done a much better job this season. By way of emphasising this they forced Darren Randolph into an important double save in the third minute. Admittedly, Monk\u2019s goalkeeper should probably have done better than merely parry Didier Ndong\u2019s initial shot but he redeemed himself with a stellar reaction stop to prevent Lewis Grabban redirecting the rebound beyond his grasp. Randolph could have done without the low lunchtime November sun getting in his eyes during the first half but surprisingly refused to wear the cap dispatched by his anxious bench. Impressive saves from Lee Cattermole and Billy Jones \u2013 even if the latter was offside \u2013 suggested he knew what he was doing but, urged on by Cattermole, Sunderland were in no mood to surrender. The veteran midfielder is an acquired managerial taste and, perhaps significantly, Grayson had latterly dropped the former Boro protege to the bench. While it was no surprise to see Stockdale and McKinlay restore Cattermole \u2013 who, unsurprisingly, acquired yet another yellow card for his collection after needlessly fouling Tavernier late in the first half \u2013 to the starting lineup they did not even offer Lamine Kon\u00e9 a place on the substitutes\u2019 bench. Not so long ago Kon\u00e9 was the subject of an \u00a318m bid from Everton but the Ivorian centre-back\u2019s shocking subsequent regression had quite a bit to do with Grayson\u2019s unseating. Cattermole\u2019s lack of pace in midfield proved an increasing problem for Stockdale and McKinlay as Boro upped the second-half tempo. With Braithwaite\u2019s amalgam of clever movement and technical trickery warming the neutral on a cold, crisp Teesside afternoon Monk\u2019s players were in the ascendant. Cued up by Britt Assombalonga, Braithwaite looked set to double the home advantage but Ruiter saved well to deny the Denmark forward. By then though Boro had done enough."
"6||The Walking Dead: season eight, episode three recap \u2013 Monsters\u201cYou\u2019re a monster,\u201d a clammy-faced Morales said to Rick, as he baldly explained the overarching theme and the title of another crash-bang-wallop episode. Yet, while far from perfect, Monsters did offer a welcome change of pace from the frenetic ammo-dumping of the previous two outings. (Someone finally \u2013 finally \u2013 ran out of bullets.) The possibility of Ezekiel\u2019s demise was dangled before us, for another. Monsters also benefited from the continued absence of Negan, the Foghorn Leghorn of leather-jacketed villains. Yet the episode\u2019s strengths \u2013 and there were a few \u2013 lay in its quieter, emotional moments. There were even a couple of attempts at comedy. Season seven this definitely ain\u2019t. The episode washed its hands of the quasi-cliffhanger of Morales rather quickly. Whether you consider his death to be a letdown \u2013 bitterly anticlimactic after the groundwork laid by he and Rick\u2019s verbal sparring \u2013 is down to personal preference. Personally, I thought it was a pleasantly unexpected rug-pull. All the signs were there that Morales\u2019s redemption and reintroduction into Rick\u2019s embrace would be a long, drawn-out process spread across a season of tears, pouting and soul-searching. His almost incidental murder was akin to Denise\u2019s in season six \u2013 short, sharp and pointless, just as deaths in this show should be. It obviously lacked the heft it would have had if the character was more established, but it jolted a sense of unpredictability into an hour with few other narrative surprises to speak of. Chief among the general lack of shocks was Eric\u2019s death. This doesn\u2019t mean it was poorly handled, though. His bucket-kicking was inevitable, but his final scene with Aaron was wonderfully played. Both men knew how this conversation ended, the lies they told fooling neither of them, instead merely acting as placeholders for the words they both wanted to say but couldn\u2019t bring themselves to utter. Though, bullets in the stomach in this show do seem to be little more than flesh wounds until the plot demands that they aren\u2019t. Rick received a similar ping in last season\u2019s finale and barely reacted. Eric\u2019s had an exit wound and everything. Yet the moment Aaron came back to the vacant tree, still clinging to hope by his fingernails, was heartbreaking. Eric wasn\u2019t a main player exactly \u2013 he\u2019s no Glenn or Andrea \u2013 but his zombiefied shamble towards his new zombie friends was a mighty kick right in the feel-glands. Will Zombie Eric return? I hope so. I miss him. Morales\u2019s short-lived reintroduction did provide a jumping-off point for comparisons between his decline into badness and Rick\u2019s \u2013 and by extension those of all the other so-called Good Guys circling the drain of moral vacuity. These character examinations varied wildly in their effectiveness: Daryl\u2019s calm and pragmatic executions of both Morales and the unfortunate Savior near the episode\u2019s end shocked even Rick, a man who\u2019d brutally slain a man using a piece of shelving mere minutes before. We\u2019ve watched over seven seasons as Daryl\u2019s gone from stone-cold hick to the beating heart of the show. Now to see him so devoid of humanity was both effective, understandable and unsettling. Daryl, and therefore the viewers, have become so desensitised to killing that it barely registers any more. The show is at its best when it\u2019s prodding at points like this, and Rick and Daryl\u2019s scenes continue to be this season\u2019s best. Aaaaaand then we come to Morgan. Stupid, stick-waggling Morgan. Having reservations about taking prisoners: fine. Craving cold-blooded revenge on the Saviors: sure. Shooting one as they tried to escape: hey, it\u2019s a free country, go nuts. You earned it. But having a bizarre fight in the woods with Jesus because you\u2019ve got a bee in your bonnet? Oh, come on, grow up, man. If the audience needed to be reminded of Jesus\u2019s inexplicable adeptness at kung fu then there were surely more elegant ways to go about it. Jesus turning to camera and saying, \u201cAudience, I am inexplicably adept at kung fu\u201d would have been less jarring. If this handbags-at-dawn scuffle genuinely occurred as a symptom of Morgan\u2019s moral malaise then it was ill-judged in the extreme. It was like watching one of the moodier episodes of Power Rangers. \u201cI\u2019m not right,\u201d said Morgan, while frowning near some bushes. \u201cIt doesn\u2019t mean I\u2019m wrong.\u201d Yes it does, Morgan. So don\u2019t do it again. (These scenes did at least answer the burning question of what zombies look like when they\u2019re having the time of their lives rolling down a grassy hill. The answer is: majestic.) Jesus\u2019s conscience is the only one firing on all cylinders at the moment, and using the Hilltop community as an ersatz PoW camp is definitely \u2013 and possibly literally \u2013 going to come back and bite him in the bum. Maggie, too, is unwilling to relinquish her humanity just yet, first allowing Gregory \u2013 a man more deliciously weaselly than Ron Weasley\u2019s weasel \u2013 back into the encampment, then siding with Jesus about what to do with the captive Saviors. With Rick\u2019s values now apparently reignited by Daryl\u2019s casual death-dealing, the three of them seem ripe for some tough lessons further down the line. We\u2019ve seen Rick go back and forth enough times, and Maggie went through the wringer last season, so it\u2019s the implacable Jesus that presents the most intriguing proposition for a descent into murdery madness. The show needs moralistic centrepoints like these to anchor it, particularly with everyone else seemingly on a mindless killing spree. For all his faults, Ezekiel is another who still knows the difference between right and wrong. After an exciting opening in which he, Carol and the Kingdomers duped a gang of Saviors into a trap, the episode was intercut with a montage-like series of ambushes, because they remembered a thing called \u201cstrategy\u201d exists. By Monsters\u2019 end, they were brought to heel by a sniper, and now the King (it looked like some damn fool dived on him, protecting him from the hail of gunfire, so he\u2019ll be fine) is the one whose saintliness will be tested. If he abandons his infuriating Shakespearean patter while he\u2019s at it, then the show will be all the better for it. Much more of a bridging episode than last week\u2019s The Damned, Monsters nevertheless continued to be cause for cautious optimism as we head into the armpit of season eight. The persistent niggles remain \u2013 Ezekiel, stupid characters doing even more stupid things, plot-necessitated lapses in logic \u2013 but it threw dashes of the moral ambiguity of old Walking Dead back into this new, action-heavy mix. Negan will surely reappear soon. Simon, his right-hand man and a far more interesting antagonist, likewise. Rick\u2019s taking Polaroids of dead Saviors presumably to goad Negan into showing himself. And two trailers full of future-zombies are now mere metres away from Hilltop. Things are thoroughly afoot. In several past seasons, episode four consisted largely of nothing happening for a very long and boring period indeed. As we head into episode four of season eight, things, as the kids say, look set to go down. It\u2019s a refreshing change."
"11||Saudi arrests show crown prince is a risk-taker with a zeal for reformNo one doubted that Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman was a man in a hurry. But the Saudi royal\u2019s decision to arrest 11 princes, four ministers and dozens of former ministers shows he is a risk-taker on a scale the Middle East has rarely seen. The fact that the billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, who owns the investment firm Kingdom Holding, was among the wave of late-night arrests (and is thought to be held in the luxurious confines of Riyadh\u2019s Ritz Carlton hotel) suggests MBS, as Salman is known colloquially, is willing to take on the kingdom\u2019s most powerful figures to implement his reforms and consolidate power. In theory, MBS could be in power for a half a century. The question is whether he is showing the maturity and steadiness to use such a lengthy reign to create a viable, modern Saudi Arabia. The crown prince will say the arrests show his determination to root out corruption, a precondition of a more open economy. But few think the arrests, and related ministerial sackings, are the independent decision of a new corruption body, established just hours before to replace an existing one, rather than part of a wider reshuffle to centralise all security authority under MBS. The speed and unpredictability with which the crown prince acts \u2013 the purge was undertaken in great secrecy in the early hours of Sunday morning \u2013 is part of a pattern of behaviour unlikely to reassure international investors and interlocutors. After all, MBS effectively seized power in a palace coup in June, ousting his elder cousin Mohammad bin Nayef as heir to the throne and interior minister. Since then, the pace of reform has been breathtaking, and contradictory. Women are to be given the right to drive next year, cinemas are to be opened, tourists welcomed and the role of clerics driven back as part of a cultural and social revolution designed to make the secretive kingdom closer to the model of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and tprepare the economy for life after oil. The prince is launching a huge sale of state assets, and the UK and US are falling over each other to handle the $2tn (\u00a31.52tn) float of Saudi Aramco, which could raise as much as $100bn for Saudi Arabia. This cash is to be used to build a new capitalist megacity, the extraordinary plans for which were unveiled last week. Many of the Saudi businessmen present at the unveiling are now locked up in the Ritz Carlton, with their phones cut off not just from room service, but their lawyers. MBS has been equally bold in his foreign policy, determined to curb Shia Iran and marginalise Saudi\u2019s Sunni rival Qatar. Saudi has launched an unending and brutal war in Yemen designed to quell the Iranian-backed Houthis. A missile was launched towards Riyadh this weekend in a sign of how the Saudis are struggling to secure a military victory. In June, MBS imposed a politically costly economic boycott on Qatar that has lost it allies in Europe and Washington. This weekend, the Sunni leader in Lebanon, Saad Hariri, under pressure from MBS, quit as prime minister in order to isolate Hezbollah and deepen the conflict with Iran. In addition, the Saudis are trying to force the weakened Syrian opposition to rein back its demands to end the civil war, in what looks like an uneasy alliance with Russia. It is a programme of social, economic and political reform, largely backed by the UAE, that amounts to a revolution in one of the most conservative countries in the world. The test is whether MBS has taken on too much at once. His latest purge is a sign that he knows opposition is gathering, and believes the educated population, liberated by social media, want reforms to go faster, and those holding back change must be ruthlesslyset aside. The list of the latest detainees is breathtaking \u2013 the equivalent of Theresa May sacking half her cabinet. As well as Prince al-Waleed, the roll call includes the former finance minister Ibrahim al-Assaf, a board member of national oil giant Saudi Aramco; the economy minister Adel Fakieh, who once played a major role in drafting reforms; the former Riyadh governor Prince Turki bin Abdullah; and Khalid al-Tuwaijiri, who headed the royal court under the late King Abdullah. Bakr bin Laden, chairman of the Saudi Binladin construction group, and Alwaleed al-Ibrahim, owner of the MBC television network, were also detained. Stock markets have recovered from the shock of the arrests, and MBS is the last man standing. But the reverberations of Saturday\u2019s night of the long knives may just be starting."
"19||Fracking protester warns: 'Yorkshire's gorgeous, but that can be taken away\u2019For the past year, Leigh Coghill has devoted her life to one thing \u2013 trying to stop the gas exploration company Third Energy from fracking on the outskirts of a tiny village in North Yorkshire. The 26-year-old from Wolverhampton, who \u201cmarried into Yorkshire\u201d, quit her job working for York council in November last year, deciding to devote herself to the cause. Since September, when Third Energy started preparing the site at Kirby Misperton for fracking, she has been one of a group of around forty Ryedale locals to have spent almost every day protesting next to the gates to the well, holding banners and placards, and watching in dismay as lorries trundle in. Coghill says that apart from environmental concerns, her opposition to fracking comes from a desire to protect her home. \u201cYorkshire is stunning,\u201d she says. \u201cIt\u2019s so gorgeous and I don\u2019t think people realise that\u2019s not a given. People don\u2019t seem to realise that it can be taken away.\u201d The business secretary, Greg Clark, is expected to give Third Energy its final permission to begin test fracking any day now, with the company saying the site is nearly ready for the process to begin. The fracking would be the first to take place in the UK since 2011, when two tremors of magnitude 1.5 and 2.3 woke people from their sleep after tests near Blackpool. If the trial run is a success, it will pave the way for the site to operate permanently. In a bid to stop the fracking, some campaigners have deployed non-violent direct action tactics including lying on the road to prevent vehicles from entering the site, climbing on lorries and, on one occasion recently, scaling an 18-metre (60ft) rig and waving flares. North Yorkshire police have had a permanent presence at the protest since it was scaled up in September, and accusations of disproportionate and aggressive policing are rife among campaigners. Officers regularly outnumber protesters by more than two to one, and the force revealed last month that the additional cost of policing the protests had been \u00a380,238 up to 31 August and \u00a3101,476 in September alone. There have been 68 arrests and 62 charges to date. The Guardian photographer Gary Calton wrote to the region\u2019s police and crime commissioner last week after he was restrained by police officers twice in one day in a bid to stop him from taking pictures. \u201cI\u2019ve been a photographer for 27 years, photographing around the world in contentious situations, I\u2019ve never had a police man hold my arms and stop me from working,\u201d he said. Carol Towner, 53, from the nearby town of Pickering, says she was charged with assaulting a police officer following a claim she had spilt hot coffee on the officer\u2019s leg during a tussle at the gates to the well site. She denies the charge. A former Tory voter, she says she always taught her children to respect authority and the police, but has had her world view turned on its head after joining the campaign. \u201cHaving seen the way the police have been dishing out their aggression, the way I\u2019ve been manhandled, the way my children have been kettled \u2026 I can\u2019t stand in my former Tory blue shoes and say that I believe in what they\u2019re doing.\u201d Amanda Oliver, assistant chief constable of North Yorkshire, said the force\u2019s duty was first and foremost to ensure the safety of everyone involved in the protest at Kirby Misperton. \u201cThis is a particularly challenging task for our officers, especially when there are large groups of people which include a mixture of peaceful protesters \u2013 the majority \u2013 along with a minority who are intent on taking unlawful action to disrupt the movement of large vehicles to and from the well site,\u201d she said. \u201cThis unlawful action has already caused a great deal of disruption within the local community, which is unacceptable. As well as facilitating people\u2019s right to assemble and protest peacefully, part of our role is to keep disruption to local residents and businesses to a minimum.\u201d She added that \u201cthe valuable role [the media plays] in covering this important issue\u201d has been stressed to officers on the ground. A spokesperson for Third Energy said the company respected the right to lawful and peaceful protest, but that \u201cthe residents of Ryedale and Third Energy have the same expectation that we and they should be able to go about our lawful business\u201d. While proponents say fracking could meet the country\u2019s energy needs for generations and reduce its reliance on imported gas post-Brexit, campaigners argue that it is dangerous industry \u2013 citing concerns over water contamination, earth quakes and the destruction of the landscape. Government figures out on Thursday showed public opposition to fracking was at an all-time high, with 36% opposing it, 13% supporting it, and 48% neither supporting nor opposing it. While two-thirds of England\u2019s land is available for fracking licenses, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales, France and Germany have all blocked the practice because of safety concerns. Coghill acknowledges that she is unlikely to stop test fracking from taking place, but insists she will keep fighting the fracking industry at every corner. Kirby Misperton is the tip of the iceberg, she says. \u201cThe people who are holding out hope that this is all going to go away when the test frack is complete don\u2019t understand what it really means for the area, and for the country.\u201d"
"0||Son Heung-min seals laboured Tottenham win over Crystal PalaceRoy Hodgson turned on his heel and marched back towards the bench. The Crystal Palace manager\u2019s stony-faced fury told the story. Football can be the cruellest of pursuits and how Hodgson felt it shortly after the hour at the home of English football \u2013 a venue that had been kind to him during his time in charge of England. His Palace team had held Tottenham Hotspur at arm\u2019s length and created a clutch of chances to take the lead. Paulo Gazzaniga, the third-choice goalkeeper for Tottenham, had been the reason why it remained goalless while Wilfried Zaha had blown a glorious chance in the 57th minute. In a heartbeat the game turned, however, and Hodgson had that sinking feeling. Son Heung-min\u2019s winner was a beautifully executed finish, quite out of keeping with the rest of his performance and that of his team. The South Korea forward\u2019s body shape was perfect and he got his left-foot shot to bend back into the corner of the net from a yard or so outside the post. Hodgson could curse how the ball had reached Son. After Danny Rose had jinked inside and seen a shot blocked, Moussa Sissoko continued the move with a low cross from the right. Yohan Cabaye had the chance to clear but he succeeded only in playing it straight to the Spurs man. The attacker did the rest and Palace could not rouse themselves thereafter. It was a curious afternoon for Mauricio Pochettino and his players. After the epic Champions League win against Real Madrid on Wednesday, they could not muster the same verve; the manager admitted it was \u201cnot the best performance\u201d and his side needed \u201csome luck to win\u201d. On the other hand, undeserved victories do have their charm. Pochettino\u2019s inclusion of Gazzaniga, for his Tottenham debut, had been unexpected. With Hugo Lloris out with an adductor muscle problem, Michel Vorm had been in line for a rare Premier League opportunity but he twisted a knee in training on Saturday. Gazzaniga embraced the opportunity but only after flirting with disaster at the start. Three minutes were on the clock when Zaha \u2013 a player whom Spurs covet \u2013 curled in a lovely cross for Mamadou Sakho. The defender had the run on Gazzaniga but he could not get a touch when, perhaps, he should have done. It is possible that he was spooked by the sight of Gazzaniga leaping wildly in his direction and, when the ball was gone, the goalkeeper essentially clotheslined him. Penalty? It seemed like the sort of action that would have been penalised outside the area. The referee, Kevin Friend, was unmoved and Hodgson later suggested he was more unhappy that Sakho did not reach the header. Pochettino was without Dele Alli, the two-goal star of the Madrid win, because of a hamstring injury, and his team laboured for tempo and cohesion. Rose fluffed a first-half header while Son was torn between crossing and shooting when well-placed on the left of the area. In the end he did neither and the ball went out for a throw-in. Pochettino also lost Harry Winks to a twisted ankle at half-time. Palace did what many clubs have already done against Tottenham at Wembley this season: they kept men behind the ball, compressed the space between the lines and looked to punch on the counterattack or from a set\u2011piece. It did not matter to them that Tottenham hogged 68% of possession. Pochettino\u2019s team are sometimes more dangerous when they do not have a lot of the ball. Palace would have led in the 36th minute following a Cabaye corner but for an excellent save by Gazzaniga. Scott Dann rose above Eric Dier and he sent a header towards the bottom corner. Gazzaniga showcased his reflexes and Jan Vertonghen completed the clearance. By the hour, it was difficult to understand how Palace were not in front. Gazzaniga tipped Andros Townsend\u2019s low shot around the far post after the former Tottenham winger had seized upon a poor ball from Serge Aurier to run through, and he also beat out Luka Milivojevic\u2019s header at the far post after a corner had deflected up off Dier. Zaha was excellent \u2013 quick, powerful and direct \u2013 but he blotted his copybook with his miss. You would have got long odds on him dragging his shot past the far post, net gaping, after he had taken the ball around Gazzaniga on a fast break. That is what he did. The angle was a little tight but a player of his refinement had to score. The chance had been presented by another blunder from Aurier and Townsend\u2019s through-ball for Zaha was perfectly judged. Zaha was furious with himself. Son would twist the knife moments later."
"13||La Trag\u00e9die de Carmen review \u2013 opera on an unforgivingly small scaleStrip all the packaging off Bizet\u2019s Carmen \u2013 the cigarette factory girls, the smugglers, the matadors\u2019 parade, y viva Espa\u00f1a \u2013 and what are you left with? A focused tragedy involving just four people. That\u2019s what Peter Brook argued when, in 1981, he created La Trag\u00e9die de Carmen. Composer Marius Constant cut, pasted and rearranged Bizet\u2019s score for a chamber ensemble, and Brook took the dialogue back to something closer to the Prosper M\u00e9rim\u00e9e novella, Bizet\u2019s original source, reinstating Carmen\u2019s inconvenient husband, for instance. But let\u2019s be honest: for most opera companies, staging La Trag\u00e9die de Carmen is less about seeking dramatic truth than about the opportunity to sell Bizet\u2019s famous tunes with fewer overheads, in a format lasting about half the duration of a regular Carmen. The Royal Opera\u2019s production is a vehicle for the young professionals on its Jette Parker Young Artists programme \u2013 its second in the atmospherically shabby setting of Wilton\u2019s Music Hall, following last year\u2019s Oreste \u2013 and as a showcase, it cut both ways. All four singers demonstrate that they are capable of taking their roles in a full-scale Carmen one day soon, but none comes out seeming like the finished article. It feels like a student show. One problem is that, without all the local colour, without the support of a chorus to react to the principals, and especially in a venue as small as Wilton\u2019s, the focus on the singers\u2019 acting increases exponentially. Gerard Jones\u2019s staging \u2013 set, in C\u00e9cile Tr\u00e9moli\u00e8res\u2019s design, on bare black steps with a glitterball overhead and with the orchestra on view at the top \u2013 strives for an intensity that is not realised, and puts the singers under unforgivingly close scrutiny. The best all-round performance comes from Russian mezzo Aigul Akhmetshina as Carmen herself, her mezzo velvety and insolent, throwing off a cool habanera while peeling a satsuma. Francesca Chiejina is good-girl Mica\u00ebla, saddled with a puppyish demeanour and a baby-pink jumper with kittens on; she will sing this role well when she can bring more expression to her powerful, fluid soprano. But Gyula Nagy, as the strutting, purple-suited Escamillo, needs more vocal suavity this close up, and Thomas Atkins, singing through an unannounced cold as a twitching, bullied Don Jos\u00e9, needs more vocal nuance. James Hendry conducts, facing the audience at the very back, and gets a lively, well-paced performance from the Southbank Sinfonia players, but it\u2019s not enough. Bizet\u2019s Carmen is a hard show to bring off. Perhaps Brook\u2019s is even harder. \u2022At Wilton\u2019s Music Hall, London, until 14 November. Box office: 020-7702 2789."
"20||Lewes bonfire society ends tradition of blacking-upLewes bonfire society members who were urged to stop painting their faces black complied on Saturday night, symbolically throwing a tin of black paint into the flames to mark the end of a tradition that had been dubbed racist. The society agreed to stop using black face paint and wearing skulls and horns as part of its Zulu costumes \u2013 a practice that had been going on since at least the second world war. The society\u2019s chairman threw a mocked up can of \u201cZulux\u201d black paint into a fire in Lewes High Street at around 1.30am, according to committee member Mick Symes, who said: \u201cThe debate is finished.\u201d The society acted after an ultimatum from Thanda Gumede, the leader of a dance troupe from Kwa Zulu-Natal, who said his group would not perform unless blacking-up stopped. Gumede, 32, who lives in Leeds, said he was very pleased with the response and that it was \u201cextremely emotional\u201d to see the group responding to his concerns. He had urged society members to use face paint that was \u201cdrastically different from black\u201d, and many used white and red instead. The woman who led the group used brown paint, which Gumede said he appreciated. He added that he was impressed by the some of the patterns used, which \u201clook like the Xhosa tribe\u201d. He told the marchers that \u201cskulls and horns make us look barbaric, the Zulu costume can be worn without them\u201d. Some still marched with them, however, with the compromise reached at the last minute, Gumede said he understood they could not be removed from the elaborate headdresses in time. \u201cThere\u2019s a lot of work to do but this is a beautiful start and a great foundation,\u201d he said. Meanwhile, other societies marched with giant tableaux which included several effigies of Donald Trump and Kim Jong-un, one of Harvey Weinstein and another of Theresa May. \u201cWhat [the society] were able to achieve in such a short amount of time was beyond out expectations,\u201d said a spokeswoman for Bonfire Against Racism, which started a petition signed by 1,600 people to stop the blacking up. \u201cThis one person painting their face brown is disappointing. It is not good enough. We appreciate what they have done but they need to realise this isn\u2019t appropriate.\u201d"
"7||'Waiting is a mistake': the billionaire pushing lawmakers to impeach TrumpDemocrats have long trod carefully around the \u201cI\u201d word. But as the one-year anniversary of Donald Trump\u2019s election victory approaches, a prominent donor is pressuring lawmakers and candidates on the left to make impeachment a central message of their campaigns in 2018. In October, Tom Steyer, a billionaire hedge fund manager turned environmental activist, launched an \u201ceight-figure\u201d ad campaign demanding that elected officials and candidates in his party \u201ctake a stand\u201d on removing Trump from office. \u201cThe fact of the matter is that we believe he is dangerous to the American people now,\u201d Steyer told the Guardian. \u201cWe believe that waiting is a mistake and we believe the events that will occur over the next year will show that we are right.\u201d Steyer \u2013 who said he is \u201cnot ruling out\u201d running for office himself in 2018 \u2013 has a list of reasons why he believes Trump should be impeached, which he has also outlined in a letter to congressional lawmakers. He says Trump has put the country on a path toward nuclear war, obstructed justice by firing the FBI director, James Comey, violated the emoluments clause by taking money from foreign governments, and threatened to close news organizations whose reporting he doesn\u2019t like. That list, he noted, was created before the news last week that special prosecutor Robert Mueller\u2019s investigation into alleged collusion between the Trump campaign and Russian had yielded two indictments and a guilty plea. \u201cThis campaign is a reflection of the fact that we are in a crisis and that is not how it\u2019s represented in the press and that is not how it\u2019s reflected in Washington,\u201d Steyer said. He added that the indictments of Trump\u2019s former campaign manager Paul Manafort and another aide, Rick Gates, and guilty plea by a former adviser, George Papadopoulos, \u201cclearly put impeachment on the table\u201d. Steyer\u2019s campaign has drawn rebuke from the president. After the ad played during a segment on Fox &amp; Friends, a show Trump regularly watches, the president lashed out. \u201cWacky &amp; totally unhinged Tom Steyer, who has been fighting me and my Make America Great Again agenda from beginning, never wins elections!\u201d Trump said. Steyer said he wasn\u2019t involved in the decision to place the ad during Fox &amp; Friends but he welcomed the attention it brought to the campaign. \u201cI think the fact that he responded so defensively actually drew more attention to what we were trying to do,\u201d Steyer said. \u201cAnd to that I say, \u2018Thank you.\u2019 If he wants to tweet angrily at us, we would encourage him to do that as much as I can.\u201d The TV and digital ads will run in all 50 states, the campaign said. And many liberals outside California, where Steyer lives, his digital and TV ads will be their first introduction to the Democratic patron. Starring in ads, Steyer calls Trump a \u201cclear and present danger\u201d and calmly lays out what he views is a case for impeachment. A petition accompanying the campaign has already gathered more than 1.5 million signatures, he said. \u201cA Republican Congress once impeached a president for far less,\u201d Steyer says in the ad, referring to Bill Clinton. \u201cYet today people in Congress and his own administration know that this president is a clear and present danger who\u2019s mentally unstable and armed with nuclear weapons and they do nothing.\u201d Impeachment must begin in the House of Representatives. Steyer argues that voters deserve to know whether congressional Democrats will act if they retake the chamber next year. Only a handful of lawmakers are openly in favor of impeachment. So far, Democratic leaders have urged colleagues to wait for investigators to conclude their work. The House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi, Steyer\u2019s representative in Congress, has mused that Trump could \u201cself-impeach\u201d but has reportedly discouraged any discussions on the topic from within her own caucus. Instead she is urging Democrats to focus their energy on derailing Republicans\u2019 tax reform. On Sunday, she told CNN\u2019s State of the Union impeachment was \u201cnot some place I think we should go\u201d. But in a sign calls for impeachment are gaining traction in Washington, Luis Guti\u00e9rrez, a Democrat of Illinois, said last week that a group of Democrats would file articles of impeachment before Thanksgiving. \u201cI think it is time that we begin to have that conversation,\u201d Guti\u00e9rrez said during a breakfast at the City Club of Chicago, adding that Trump was an \u201cill-fit\u201d for the office. Guti\u00e9rrez also stressed that the group was working independently and was not supported by Pelosi or the Democratic party. That group would join Democrats Al Green and Brad Sherman, who have introduced articles of impeachment though neither appear to be moving forward. Green recently said he would attempt to force a vote on impeaching Trump, but the effort was quickly abandoned. Polling suggests public support for impeachment is growing. A recent survey by the Public Policy Poll found a \u201crecord level of support for impeaching Trump\u201d, with 49% of respondents saying they were in favor and 41% saying they were not. Steyer has said he is considering running for the US senate, challenging Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat, who is seeking a fifth term. Feinstein has refused to back calls for impeachment, urging \u201cpatience\u201d and expressing hope that Trump might yet be a \u201cgood president\u201d. In his letter, Steyer writes: \u201cIt is evident that there is zero reason to believe \u2018he can be a good president.\u2019\u201d Impeachment is more popular among Democrats than Republicans \u2013 making it a particularly good proposal to follow should Steyer run in California, a blue state that has relished its role resisting Trump."
"21||Boris Johnson's \u00a31m for press freedom: a small response to a big threatThe surprise announcement by the foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, of a \u00a31m fund to safeguard press freedom around the world is welcome. Yes, the sum is tiny. And, yes, critics will view it as an attempt by him, or the government, to gain political kudos. And yes again, it represents the very minimum of effort in the face of the daily, deadly threats to journalism in countries where we maintain business and diplomatic links. For all that, it is a small, somewhat hesitant, step in the right direction. It is a recognition, albeit belated, of the scale of the crisis in which, to quote Johnson, \u201cworldwide attacks on journalists are rife and increasing\u201d. Where has he been living for the past decade? Those attacks have been \u201crife and increasing\u201d year upon year. Scores of journalists have been murdered in Mexico, Russia, Syria, Iraq, Somalia and Pakistan. Hundreds more journalists have been jailed on bogus charges and intimidated in Turkey, Egypt, Bahrain, Kazakhstan, Rwanda, Burundi and South Sudan. The list of dishonour now comes closer to home with the killing last month, by car bomb in Malta, of Daphne Caruana Galizia, a reporter who was investigating political corruption. Rightly, there have been calls for an independent investigation, including to the European commission by the heads of eight of the world\u2019s largest news organisations, including the Guardian\u2019s editor-in-chief, Katharine Viner. Press freedom is under perpetual attack in so many countries where democracy is unstable or does not exist at all. In such places, the journalists who try to inform the people of what is happening are nothing short of heroes and deserve all the help we can give them. To that end, Johnson might consider giving support to an initiative just launched by the international press freedom watchdog, Reporters Without Borders (RWB) \u2013 of which I sit on the UK board \u2013 and the Freedom Voices Network, which is going to publicise the work of journalists that their murderers wish to suppress. Called Forbidden Stories, it aims to give life to the investigations carried out by journalists who have been killed or arrested. The messengers may be murdered or incarcerated, but their messages will survive. By publishing the information that journalists risk their lives to report, RWB\u2019s secretary general, Christophe Deloire, says the project will \u201cuse journalism to defend journalism\u201d. He believes it will \u201csend a strong message to press freedom\u2019s predators throughout the world\u201d. There is a proactive element, too, because Forbidden Stories is also planning to engage in collaborative investigations along with a network of international media. The first journalism to benefit from the project was produced by three Mexicans (of the 11 who have been murdered in that country in 2017): Cecilio Pineda, Miroslava Breach and Javier Valdez. They were killed because they dared to investigate the corrupt relationships between Mexico\u2019s drug cartels and politicians. Pineda, editor of a newspaper in the state of Guerrero, La Voz de Tierra Caliente, was shot dead in March hours after posting a Facebook video in which he highlighted the alleged friendship between the head of a criminal gang and a local legislator. Later the same month, Breach died after four shots were fired at her at close range outside her home in Chihuahua City. She had published the names of municipal election candidates who she said were secretly backed by drug traffickers. Two weeks after her death, her newspaper, Norte de Ciudad Juarez, was closed down. Valdez, an award-winning journalist and co-founder of the newspaper R\u00edodoce in Culiac\u00e1n, capital of Sinaloa state, was shot dead in May after coming under pressure not to publish an interview with a drug lord. Sinaloa is the base of one of the largest and most violent of Mexico\u2019s drug cartels. Documentary film-maker Angus Macqueen noted in a Guardian tribute to the bravery of Valdez that as a result of his death we will know less about what is happening in Mexico. At least, with Forbidden Stories, some of his work will live on. Other journalists elsewhere in the world who feel threatened may also use the project because it offers an encrypted repository to protect them and their work. But will the killers of Pineda, Breach and Valdez ever be found? Will the authorities even bother to investigate their deaths? The awful truth is that the overwhelming majority of these murderers are safe, as proved by a tragic survey produced annually over the last 10 years by the New York-based press freedom body the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ). Its latest \u201cglobal impunity index\u201d, which ranks countries where journalists are murdered and their killers go free, is replete with the usual suspects, including Mexico, Russia and Somalia (which is the worst country for unsolved murders for the third year in a row). I have been writing about the problem of impunity for as long as CPJ has been compiling its index and after listening to arguments made forcefully by the former director of the International News Safety Institute Rodney Pinder. Too many people think most journalists die when covering wars. Nothing could be further from the truth. The majority die while trying to shine a light on matters within the borders of their own countries. They are the murders that are rarely investigated because the authorities who are supposed to be enforcers of the law are themselves the perpetrators. So there is no incentive for them to investigate. As the CPJ points out, countries that like to call themselves democracies repeatedly feature on the impunity index. They thumb their noses at demands by human rights bodies for proper investigations into the deaths of journalists. They do not even heed calls by the United Nations, which has adopted an anti-impunity plan of action. Its request to states to take measures to promote justice when journalists are attacked has been ignored. Consider these disgraceful facts. The 12 countries on the CPJ index accounted for nearly 80% of the unsolved murders of journalists that took place worldwide during the past decade. Four of those countries \u2013 Mexico, the Philippines, India and Nigeria \u2013 are on the governing council of the community of democracies, a coalition supposedly dedicated to upholding and strengthening democratic norms. It\u2019s enough to make journalists weep. Perhaps the most disheartening factor of all is the lack of protection afforded to journalists who receive death threats. The CPJ figures show that around 40% of murder victims were threatened in advance. These are not only attacks on journalists and on press freedom. Given what these reporters are attempting to do \u2013 trying to inform people about what is being done by their country\u2019s government and various state institutions \u2013 they should be seen as assaults on the public themselves. It may be regarded as trite within western democracies to talk of journalism as a mission to comfort the afflicted and afflict the comfortable. In countries where democracy is fragile or non-existent, it is anything but a cliche. I want to see the \u00a31m pledge by Johnson as about more than the money. It is a recognition, at long last, that Britain, where press freedom first flourished, is taking seriously the pressures on journalism elsewhere in the world. It might be naive to be optimistic. After all, modern British governments have not had a great track record on press freedom. But it offers a glimmer of hope. Let us, at least, see it in positive terms."
"0||Tottenham Hotspur 1-0 Crystal Palace: Premier League \u2013 as it happenedGlory, glory Tottenham Hotspur blares over the tannoy. Well, the points are theirs today. But there wasn\u2019t much about glory about that tired display. Will they care, though? Nope. Not a bit. This was always likely to be awkward. Tottenham looked leggy and emotionally spent after the win over Real Madrid and Crystal Palace did their best to frustrate them. The visitors even had the better chances while the game was goalless, but in the end they paid for their lack of ruthlessness when Son Heung-Min scored a lovely winning goal. All of which means Tottenham go level with Manchester United on 23 points - and below them on goal difference - and Palace stay bottom, five points off 17th place. That\u2019s all from me for now. You can follow Manchester City v Arsenal next. It\u2019s all over! 90 min+3: Townsend cuts inside, on to his left foot, but his 20-yard shot is blocked. Tottenham appear to have done enough. 90 min+1: Ben Davies replaces Danny Rose. Tottenham have used up their three subs. 90 min: There will be three added minutes. 89 min: There\u2019s still an anxious air inside Wembley. Especially when another loose spell from Tottenham allows Townsend to dribble dangerously down the right. He steps round Dier and fires a low ball into the six-yard box from the byline. But Sanchez clears. What Palace would give for a striker! 87 min: Eriksen saunters through the middle, options left and right. He chooses Sissoko on the right. The midfielder\u2019s cross is deflected behind. Sanchez heads wide from Eriksen\u2019s cross. 86 min: Gazzaniga, who\u2019s had a good game, is alert enough to collect a long pass before Loftus-Cheek can nip in. Palace aren\u2019t out of this yet. 83 min: Son shoots away down the left again, but this time Sakho holds him up, stands firm and settles for conceding a corner. Son lacked belief and pace there. 82 min: Son should kill Palace off after breaking through on goal. He sends Speroni one way, but after doing the hard part he strokes his shot into the near side-netting! 80 min: From Cabaye\u2019s corner, Dann loops a header over. 76 min: After a couple of Palace corners, Gazzaniga does well to punch clear under heavy pressure. Palace make a change. Bakary Sako is on for Joel Ward. Tottenham also make a change, Fernando Llorente on for Harry Kane. 73 min: Zaha hares back to stop a Son-led counterattack. You can tell how much Palace\u2019s survival means to him. He wins possession and instigates a Palace attack, but it ends with Cabaye shooting wide from 25 yards. 70 min: A warning for Spurs. From the irrepressible Zaha, of course. He wriggles down the left and briefly looks like he\u2019s going to score a repeat of his goal against West Ham. But he seems to get caught in two minds, perhaps after spotting Loftus-Cheek emerging in space on the right. In the end he rolls a curious looking thing out for a goal-kick. It was neither a pass nor a shot. It just ... was. 68 min: Palace haven\u2019t mustered a response since the goal. Instead Tottenham are looking for a killer second. An Eriksen corner\u2019s easily cleared, but it\u2019s not long before Tottenham have another after strong pressing from Rose. 65 min: \u201cLads, we\u2019re Tottenham\u201d \u2013 Mauricio Pochettino. It hasn\u2019t been coming, but it has arrived. For once, Crystal Palace were unable to clear their lines and this is the result. The ball reached Kane in the area from the right. He shuffled it on to Rose, who cut inside before seeing his goalbound shot blocked. That was the moment Palace had to get it away. Instead Cabaye\u2019s clearance only reached Son on the edge of the area. He took a moment to calibrate his sights before bending a super left-footed shot into the right corner to bust the growing Tottenham tension! 62 min: Son skitters through the middle and finds Rose, whose cross slithers across the face of goal and beyond the sliding Aurier at the far post. 61 min: \u201cLads, it\u2019s Tottenham\u201d \u2013 Roy Hodgson. 60 min: Cabaye\u2019s corner is headed on by Dann to the far post, where Milivoejevic thuds a header goalwards, only for Gazzaniga to make a stunning reaction save! Tottenham, living oh so dangerously, scramble the ball clear, at which point Kevin Friend stops play after spotting Son down in the area. 59 min: Palace\u2019s belief is rising. A devilish cross from the left flashes across the face of goal. Then Townsend\u2019s deflected shot has to be headed behind by Aurier. 57 min: Ward brilliantly heads Eriksen\u2019s free-kick away. The ball comes to Aurier, who proceeds to roll a five-yard pass to Townsend in a manner that suggests he should be playing for West Ham. Tottenham are wide open here. Townsend sprays a pass through to Zaha and he rounds Gazzaniga, who\u2019s come charging out of his area in an attempt to reach the ball first. The goal\u2019s wide open, but now it\u2019s Zaha\u2019s turn to lose his composure as he pulls his shot two or three yards wide of the far post! 56 min: Schlupp struggles to clear and, in a panic, brings down Aurier. He\u2019s booked. 55 min: Milivojevic hoists a high ball into the Tottenham area. Who\u2019s there? Sakho! But his touch is loose and Aurier shovels it behind. Gazzaniga claims Cabaye\u2019s corner. 53 min: Tottenham\u2019s wait to threaten from a corner goes on. 51 min: Rose fizzes a low cross into the area. Milivojevic turns it over his own bar. Eriksen\u2019s corner is headed away. 49 min: Tottenham have a little trouble clearing the resulting corner, but they breathe a sigh of relief when Zaha hammers over from 18 yards. 48 min: A dreadful pass inside from Aurier is cut out by Townsend, who spies an opportunity to charge forward and test a backtracking Tottenham defence. He swerves to the left and drives a low shot towards the far corner, but Gazzaniga excels again, pushing the ball wide! 46 min: Tottenham get the second half underway. Mousa Dembele has replaced Harry Winks. Tottenham want to make a fast start here. Aurier\u2019s cross is headed behind by Fosu-Mensah. That was very dull. Mauricio Pochettino won\u2019t be happy. Roy Hodgson will be happy. 45 min+2: Townsend is booked for tugging back Sissoko. 45 min+1: A free-kick to Palace on the left. Cabaye stands over it. But his delivery is too deep. An easy catch for Gazzaniga. 45 min: Winks sends an effort harmlessly wide from long range. 44 min: Eriksen slips a pass through to Son. The South Korean should knock it across to Kane, who\u2019s free in the middle, but he dithers and ends up sending a nothing cross-shot out of play. Kane is unamused. 42 min: Vertonghen has a pop from 25 yards. The shot deflects off Dann and briefly looks to have inconvenienced Speroni. In the end he\u2019s able to gather the ball easily enough. 39 min: Sissoko runs the ball out for a throw. Spurs can\u2019t get anything going at the moment. 36 min: Zaha skitters into the Tottenham area on the right. Again Dier sticks to his task and concedes a corner. Cabaye lifts it to the far post and Dann, rising above Dier, nods the ball towards the bottom left corner. Gazzaniga finally has something to do. He does it fabulously, diving down to push the header out, and he\u2019s fortunate enough that the ball drops to a white shirt. 35 min: Rose bursts down the left and drills in another cross. This time Sakho\u2019s clearance is poor, sliced into the air, but Kane, under pressure, heads over. 31 min: Aurier swings a deep cross to the far post. Loftus-Cheek falls asleep, allowing Rose to run off him and meet the ball unchallenged, but the wing-back\u2019s header is awful. 30 min: Rose wins a corner off Loftus-Cheek on the left. Eriksen\u2019s delivery is headed away. 28 min: A clearance runs to Eriksen. The ball bounces off his knees. The ball is hoofed clear. 26 min: Palace are carrying out an expert spoiling exercise at the moment. Good old Mr Roy. 23 min: Kane has his head in his hands and he\u2019s grimacing a lot. He\u2019s limped off for now. It goes without saying that Tottenham will be desperate to see him recover swiftly. He\u2019s having some spray on his right knee. Eventually he runs back on. 22 min: This is the last thing Tottenham want to see: Harry Kane has stayed down after being rapped on the ankles by Timothy Fosu-Mensah. The physio is on. Kane appears to be in some pain. Mauricio Pochettino is chuntering. 20 min: The Tottenham fans turn up the volume briefly, recognising that their team has made a sluggish start. There have been quite a few loose touches. 18 min: Winks is down after taking a knock on the ankle from Milivojevic. 17 min: The corner comes to nothing. 16 min: Schlupp clips a pass down the line for Zaha, who looks to have the pace to get away from the Tottenham defence, only for Dier to stick to him and concede a corner with a perfectly timed challenge. 14 min: Eriksen shoots well wide from 25 yards. 13 min: Tottenham are beginning to threaten. Winks slips a pass through to Rose on the left, but the wing-back\u2019s low centre is cut out by the sliding Dann, who crucially stopped it from reaching Kane in the six-yard box. 12 min: Son brilliantly shimmies away from Dann on the left, leaving the Palace defender for dead with a lovely shake of the hips and bursting down the flank. His low cross is cut out, though. 10 min: Kane, operating a shoot-on-sight policy, turns 25 yards from goal and wallops one on target. It\u2019s straight at Speroni, but there\u2019s the first notice of intent from Kane. 9 min: Tottenham hurl a couple of crosses into the area. Dann heads the first away, Sakho deals with the second. 7 min: Cabaye knocks an instant pass down the right channel, looking for Loftus-Cheek. Roses covers well, showing a good turn of pace. 5 min: Tottenham are taking their time to get into their stride. 3 min: Palace have started with impressive urgency. Zaha, a box of tricks, teases Tottenham on the left before curling a cross towards the far post. It\u2019s the first test for Gazzaniga. Sakho attacks the cross as the goalkeeper, spreading his body, comes out unconvincingly. Neither player can make contact, although Gazzaniga manages to clip Sakho\u2019s head. The Palace defender needs a bit of treatment. 2 min: Funnily enough, Paulo Gazzaniga\u2019s last Premier League appearance, back in December 2015, came against Tottenham, who won 2-0 away to Southampton. Peep! We\u2019re off! Crystal Palace, in red and blue, get the ball rolling. They\u2019re kicking from right to left in the first half. Before kick-off, a minute\u2019s remembrance. It\u2019s impeccably observed. The teams are out. The sun\u2019s out. It\u2019s almost time for football. Of course, Tottenham like their Gazzas. Enjoy. Required pre-match reading Tottenham make a couple of rotational changes, Danny Rose and Serge Aurier replacing Kieran Trippier and Ben Davies, but they also have a couple of pressing injury problems. Dele Alli\u2019s slight hamstring strain means that Son Heung-Min comes into the attack, while injuries to both Hugo Lloris and Michel Vorm have forced Mauricio Pochettino to turn to his third-choice goalkeeper, Paulo Gazzaniga. It\u2019s the former Southampton goalkeeper\u2019s debut. No pressure, Paulo. Crystal Palace will hope to test Gazzaniga\u2019s nerves with, er ... hmm ... well ... oh. The Premier League\u2019s bottom side still don\u2019t have a fit striker, with Christian Benteke and Connor Wickham still out, meaning that Wilfried Zaha and Andros Townsend continue as a free-jazz front two. There\u2019s better news elsewhere, though. Yes, calf-knack victim Patrick van Aanholt has had to be replaced by Timothy Fosu-Mensah at left-back, but what a boost it is to have Mamadou Sakho back in central defence. James Tomkins drops to the bench. Tottenham: Gazzaniga; Sanchez, Dier; Vertonghen; Aurier, Winks, Sissoko, Rose; Eriksen, Son; Kane. Subs: Whiteman, Foyth, Trippier, Dembele, Nkoudou, Llorente. Crystal Palace: Speroni; Ward, Dann, Sakho, Fosu-Mensah; Loftus-Cheek, Milivojevic, Cabaye, Schlupp; Townsend, Zaha. Subs: Hennessey, Tomkins, Souare, Riedewald, McArthur, Sako, Puncheon. Referee: Kevin Friend. Hello. This is the kind of game that Tottenham, being Tottenham, would lose in the past. Real Madrid one minute, Crystal Palace the next; you know how these things go. This is where we\u2019re supposed to laugh at Tottenham for being Spursy, their version of Cityitis, and tip them to lose at home to the Premier League\u2019s bottom side four days after walloping the European champions at Wembley. What are they like! But let\u2019s not go down that route. Thanks to Mauricio Pochettino, the definition of Spursy is starting to change. The word was once associated with flimsiness and farce, with softness and sloppiness, and Tottenham could always be relied upon to let you down. Now, however, to be Spursy means being sturdy at the back and rather brilliant in attack. They might not win the league this season, not with Manchester City in such scintillating form, but that would not be down to any kind of mental weakness. Not under Pochettino. Standards have been raised. Which isn\u2019t to say that Tottenham can simply expect to turn up and have it all their own way this afternoon. They face a Palace side scrapping for their lives, meaning that they will need to guard against any complacency after reaching the last 16 of the Champions League with that win over Real. Palace remain in peril, but they have shown signs of improvement under Roy Hodgson in recent weeks and will know that Tottenham have occasionally toiled at Wembley this season. Hodgson will hope that his side can take advantage of any dip in intensity from Tottenham, both on the pitch and in the stands, where the atmosphere is likely to be a little more sedate \u2013 it is the dreaded midday kick-off, after all \u2013 than it was while Madrid were being torn apart under the lights. Kick-off: 12pm BST."
"11||Sima Wali obituaryNearly 40 years of war and insecurity have taken their toll on Afghan women, and access to education, health services and the rule of law remain severely limited. Sima Wali, who has died aged 66 from multiple system atrophy, a rare neurological disease, was a persistent voice in her countrywomen\u2019s battle for better rights. As president of Refugee Women in Development, a nonprofit organisation that she established in the US in 1981 after fleeing Afghanistan for fear of communist persecution, Wali raised international awareness of the plight of Afghan women, and raised millions of dollars in funding for women-led Afghan organisations, in her own \u201cjihad for social justice and peace\u201d. She was instrumental in the establishment of the Ministry of Women\u2019s Affairs in the post-Taliban Afghan government, when she was one of only three Afghan female invitees to the 2001 conference in Bonn to decide their country\u2019s future. There, Hamid Karzai was chosen to head Afghanistan\u2019s interim government, while Wali\u2019s lobbying for the ministry, an institution that continues to operate, paid off. \u201cIn the future, we can make sure women play a major part, both in the governing positions as well as in the civil society,\u201d she said. \u201cWe will not go away.\u201d Born to well-educated parents in Kandahar in southern Afghanistan, the birthplace of the Taliban, Sima spent her early years in India, where her banker father, Mohammad Wali, was posted. Her mother, Shafiqa (nee Sharifi), briefly oversaw a clothing factory in Kabul. Fighting to better the lives of Afghan women was in part a family tradition: her father\u2019s first cousin was Amanullah Khan, Afghanistan\u2019s reformist king of the 1920s and an early crusader for girls\u2019 education. Equal rights for women were enshrined in Afghan law as part of the 1964 constitution. \u201cWhen I was growing up, female role models were active members of parliament, as well as doctors, judges and educators working alongside men,\u201d Wali said. She attended Kabul University, earning a BA in business administration in 1971. Wali then worked for the US embassy in Kabul as well as the Peace Corps organisation, before fleeing for the US in 1978, fearing persecution as a member of the ruling class after the then president, Mohammad Daoud Khan, was assassinated during a communist coup. Following the Soviet invasion in 1979, both her parents were imprisoned by the local communist authorities in Kabul, as were thousands of opponents of the new regime. They later joined their daughter in the US. In 1984 Wali gained an MA in international relations at American University in Washington before delving into the work that would define her. Afghanistan was one of the key proxy battlegrounds of the cold war, where Red Army troops fought mujahideen supported by the US. Moscow\u2019s defeat in 1989 led to a brutal civil war and the rise of the Taliban, whose austere rule stripped women of basic rights, banning girls from going to school and forcing women to don the burqa when outside their homes. However, Wali was disdainful of the media focus on the head-to-toe covering \u2013 \u201cthat is the least of my problems,\u201d she said. \u201cThe Taliban is using culture and religion to keep women down, but there is nothing in my religion that teaches keeping women at home, not educating them, starving them and withholding medical treatment from them so they die.\u201d Unable to return to her native country, in the 80s Wali regularly travelled from the US to Pakistan to work with grassroots Afghan refugee groups, \u201cproviding training, networking and advocacy support to enable local NGOs to provide better services in their communities\u201d. Later, during the Balkans war, she visited women in the refugee camps of former Yugoslavia, encouraging them to mobilise in the face of danger. During the 90s she lobbied President Bill Clinton\u2019s administration against the Taliban, urging Washington to not formally recognise the group as Afghanistan\u2019s legitimate government. She continued to call on the US to take responsibility for supplying the mujahideen with firepower, only to later abandon Afghanistan when it was engulfed in chaos and misery. Articulate and brimming with empathy, she became a regular fixture at events focused on Afghanistan, speaking at institutions worldwide. In 2002, while addressing the UN on International Women\u2019s Day, she spoke of how \u201cthe ferocity of attacks against Afghan women have been so severe and draconian that a new term, \u2018gender apartheid\u2019, was coined to describe the extent of the new kind of horror aimed directly at them\u201d. That same year she returned to her native country for the first time in more than two decades, training teachers who would educate girls, and helping to set up the women\u2019s ministry. A vociferous opponent of Taliban ideology, she was on the receiving end of death threats from the Islamist group. In 2005, while visiting women in the east of Afghanistan near the Pakistani border, she narrowly escaped a kidnapping attempt by armed militants. As the Nato-led war dragged on, a conflict still lingering after the withdrawal of foreign combat troops began three years ago, Wali began to view the US in similar terms as the Soviet Union, as another occupier, \u201cinstead of the friend and ally we want her to be\u201d. She received a Gloria Steinem Women of Vision award in 1989, and the Amnesty International Ginetta Sagan award in 1999. She was also a founding member and vice-president of the Sisterhood is Global Institute, a consultant to the UN advocating for women\u2019s rights worldwide. A documentary, The Woman in Exile Returns: The Sima Wali Story, was made in 2004. A brief marriage ended in divorce in 1987. Wali is survived by her two sisters, Sohaila and Soraya, and four brothers, Ahmad, Jahed, Zia and Abdul. \u2022 Sima Wali, human rights campaigner, born 7 April 1951; died 22 September 2017"
"18||Naomi Campbell: \u2018People try to use your past to blackmail you. I won\u2019t allow it\u2019At a big and ritzy Halloween party in New York two Saturdays ago, a lot of highly famous people dressed up as other highly famous people. Naomi Campbell, however, went as herself. Why deign to masquerade as some lesser being when you are already an internationally acknowledged apogee of fabulousness? In a gold strapless mini dress and a crown bigger than the one Beyonc\u00e9 wore at the Grammys, the 47-year-old supermodel was approached by more than one party guest who had come in costume as Naomi Campbell. When we meet, Halloween itself, we are in the restaurant of a downtown Manhattan hotel and one of us has been here a lot longer than the other. It would have been disappointing, bewildering even, if Campbell were punctual. Extreme lateness has become part of her notoriety, her mythos of supreme divadom. One hour and 27 minutes after the scheduled time, she swoops in, the full force of her, in giant sunglasses and on the phone, flanked by an assistant smiling apologies. Does she want anything? Coffee, water? \u201cNo. I just want to start,\u201d she says, sitting down and stressing the last word by giving the table a brisk rap with manicured fingertips. She acknowledges the homages with smooth queenliness. \u201cEvery Halloween, I\u2019m very honoured and flattered to see many Naomis,\u201d she says in a coy, Cool Britannia voice that floats somewhere between Streatham and Notting Hill, both south-London-gal-at-the-back-of-a-bus and posh-lady-taking-tea. \u201cWhen I came to New York and went to my first Christopher Street parade, I saw many Naomis.\u201d And, in conclusion: \u201cI embrace them all.\u201d This is how it begins, then, with Campbell seemingly in character as one of the imperious women she plays on the small screen. She is vampish, predatory Camilla Marks in Lee Daniels\u2019s hip-hop drama series Empire, a character who had a particularly fine coital moment yanking on the gold chains of a besotted, shirtless Hakeem Lyon (23-year-old Bryshere Yazuan Gray) to intone: \u201cTell me who am I to you.\u201d (\u201cMy mama,\u201d he answers, in a whisper.) She was also Claudia Bankson, a shade-throwing Vogue editor on the cult FX show American Horror Story. Finally, she plays Rose Spencer-Crane in the new show Star, the petulant wife of a rock star and a woman who descends upon working-class Atlanta swathed in designer clothes to deliver lines such as: \u201cYou have bad roots, you insolent hussy.\u201d These characters are all delicious to watch, but they are united by cartoonish hauteur. As I ask Campbell about this acting phase of her life, one facet of a highly visible career resurgence, she taps away at a text, peering distractedly at her phone for the response. I seem to be getting an act, all three roles in one. Over the next 40 minutes, however, she turns into a human being. And not just a human being, a likable one. \u201cPut it this way,\u201d she says, sliding the phone away and launching into a motor-mouthed monologue. \u201cEverything I\u2019ve had, I\u2019ve worked for. And I will never take the easy way to get anything. So I\u2019m grateful to Lee [Daniels] \u2013 I\u2019m a grafter and I work hard at something for the long term. I don\u2019t believe in things that happen overnight. I\u2019m grateful not to have gotten it all because I think I would have lost it all. I came into everything so young.\u201d In 1986, a few weeks shy of her 16th birthday, she landed her first photoshoot for British Elle. \u201cI\u2019m grateful for the way my path has turned out. And I am very spiritual, I do believe in God, and I thank God every day for my blessings because I know I am blessed.\u201d This is a bit of a surprise. Religion is \u201cnot something I share, really,\u201d she smiles. Campbell, who was raised by a single mother, lights a candle every day for the man she calls \u201cgrandfather\u201d \u2013 Nelson Mandela. She feels herself to be in spiritual communication with him. \u201cConstantly. He may not be here on the physical plane, but he\u2019s here, and I feel him.\u201d She admits that she \u201cnever quite understood what Mr Mandela said to me when I was younger. I\u2019m understanding a bit more now: \u2018I will \u201cspeak up for those who are unable to speak for themselves\u201d if I can.\u2019\u201d Now, in her 40s, she\u2019s finding \u201ca different richness of life\u201d, which includes being able to heed that advice. \u201cI\u2019m more comfortable in my skin than I\u2019ve ever been, but that\u2019s only come because I know I have to share it. I will always be open to any young model \u2013 black, white, yellow, pink \u2013 I want to share what I\u2019ve learned in this business. And not just to models, to women. If I can empower them, teach them anything I\u2019ve learned in these 31 years, I will do so. Everyone who knows me knows; you call me, I\u2019m there. Help, advice, anything.\u201d Campbell has made history since the start of her career. In 1988, she became the first ever black woman to appear on the cover of French Vogue. She, Christy Turlington and Linda Evangelista formed a supermodel unit nicknamed \u201cthe Trinity\u201d and the latter two once chided Dolce &amp; Gabbana: \u201cIf you don\u2019t take Naomi, you don\u2019t get us.\u201d Campbell is conscious of the great power she holds within the industry now and takes her responsibility as an advocate seriously. Four years ago she formed the Diversity Coalition with fellow black models Bethann Hardison and Iman. \u201cThe three of us said: \u2018OK, we\u2019re gonna be the ones to come out at the forefront for the models, we have nothing to lose.\u2019 It\u2019s getting better, but there are still things we have to remind people of. It\u2019s not a fight, it\u2019s not a confrontation; it\u2019s a reminder, a friendly reminder.\u201d Campbell defined the era of the 90s supermodel, of the untouchable, va-va-voom glamour epitomised by flashy fashion houses such as Versace, Dolce &amp; Gabbana and Saint Laurent. But 2017 presents a different fashion paradigm, one in which Instagram is a more important medium than the runway, relatability is privileged over high-handedness, and the term \u201coff duty\u201d has become an aspirational aesthetic. The term does not apply here. In 2007, Campbell wore couture to mop floors in a sanitation department garage as community service for throwing a BlackBerry at her former housekeeper. On the last day, she emerged in a silver-sequined Dolce &amp; Gabbana gown, to the hysterical delight of waiting paparazzi. She has never not known how to work it. \u201cWorking it\u201d, however, extends far beyond a famous runway walk and turning out impeccably high fashion looks. It also includes an ability to transmute terrible behaviour into a kind of glamorous myth or, as one might say these days, a compelling personal brand. Campbell has been convicted of assault on four occasions and in 2008, she pleaded guilty to attacking two police officers at Heathrow airport. This side of her \u2013 the violence, rage and substance abuse \u2013 is usually depicted as her \u201cdark side\u201d, like some fairytale moralistic counterpoint to her beauty, fame, and wealth. The truth is, the bad behaviour seems only to have enhanced her legend. As Daniels recently told the New York Times in a profile of his star: \u201cShe showed up to the shoot three hours late. The limousine door opened and she came out like Cruella de Vil. And I was screaming at her at the top of my lungs at the audacity of coming that late to my set, and she was screaming back at me. I fired her on the spot and fell in love with her there and then.\u201d In 1999, Campbell entered rehab for cocaine and alcohol addiction and she says now that she, \u201ctook on my shit and learned from it. I try to move on. But there are certain times when people try to use your past to blackmail you, to benefit them. That shit I\u2019m not going to allow.\u201d Her offences are simply fact, but I wonder, too, if past decades subjected her to the ugly stereotype of the \u2018angry black woman\u2019, one which even the highest in the land face. (As former first lady Michelle Obama told Oprah Winfrey in an interview last year: \u201cThat was just one of those things that you just sort of think, \u2018Dang, you don\u2019t even know me.\u2019\u201d) Maybe we are finally approaching a cultural moment in which the figure of a highly assertive, ambitious and phenomenally successful black woman is widely recognised as not just aspirational, but politically vital, too. In August, Campbell posted a photograph on Instagram of British Vogue\u2019s editorial staff under outgoing editor Alexandra Shulman. All 55 faces in the picture are white. She wrote: \u201cLooking forward to an inclusive and diverse staff now that @edward_enninful is the editor.\u201d Enninful, an old friend of hers, is the first man and the first black person to edit British Vogue. He has lambasted what he calls \u201cthe Sloanies\u2019 club\u201d of the magazine\u2019s old guard and his shake-up included the appointment of Campbell as a contributing editor. \u201cI\u2019ve no disrespect for the past staff at all,\u201d she says. \u201cNone. I have gratitude and graciousness to Lucinda Chambers, who was very important in my early career. But let\u2019s support the next generation.\u201d And now, suddenly, she is blazing with fury, her greenish eyes shooting heat across the table. \u201cI\u2019m not pleased at how he [Enninful] has been treated. I\u2019ve been in this business for 31 years, I\u2019ve seen editors come and go, and I\u2019ve never seen anything like this in my life. I find it racist. And I will not stand by and let people attack him in this way.\u201d (Shulman, appearing to take aim at Enninful, recently wrote that editing was, \u201ccertainly not a job for someone \u2026 who thinks that the main part of their job is being photographed in a series of designer clothes with a roster of famous friends\u201d.) \u201cLet the work speak for itself,\u201d says Campbell. \u201cHe has worked in this business for many years, that\u2019s why he got the job, fair and square. And to see all this stuff come out is appalling. England should be ashamed. Support your own. And be happy that there\u2019s going to be a new generation, a new Vogue. I\u2019ve been appalled. I\u2019ve been appalled.\u201d She repeats the word two more times, with emphasis. \u201cIt\u2019s like a vendetta and it should stop. And I want you to say those words as I say them. I take it as racial abuse. I take it as that. It\u2019s not fair.\u201d This moment of fury fades as rapidly as it arrived and soon she is chatting happily about frying fish with comedian Dave Chappelle in his down-home Ohio kitchen, or DJing for old friends. \u201cYou see me as this girl on the runway with poise, grace and yadda yadda ya, but if I\u2019m having a good time, I want everyone else to have a good time. I\u2019m happy because I\u2019m based in truth, that\u2019s it. I\u2019m being honest to my morals. As I said, I\u2019m loyal: you fuck me and I\u2019m done with you.\u201d She laughs, then rephrases this more delicately: \u201cIf I get hurt, I wish them the best, I close the door and I move on.\u201d She admits that she is reluctant to allow new people into her life, \u201cbut when I meet someone and it\u2019s real and special I can see it\u201d. For many years, though, she didn\u2019t always see it. \u201cI was in my drinking, partying days, I wasn\u2019t seeing it clearly. I see it more clearly now. Doing this job now for British Vogue, I get to see what the next generation is doing and [I\u2019m] just hanging out in sneakers and jeans, and having fun.\u201d Wait, wait. Sneakers and jeans? From the woman who made a couture event out of community service? \u201cYeah, that\u2019s how I roll,\u201d she laughs. \u201cKate [Moss] and I used to wear our night dresses out in the 90s and put on our sneakers and go out and I\u2019ve gone back to that.\u201d Right now, she is low-key cosy in a blazer from Supreme, a plaid shirt from a friend, Ala\u00efa leggings and Saint Laurent boots. \u201cI dress how I feel,\u201d she says, shrugging. And today that\u2019s quite straightforward: \u201cEasy. Comfortable. It\u2019s cold!\u201d she laughs. Now she has a plane to catch. When she stands up to leave, she gives me a warm hug, then shoots me a contrite and beseeching look, and murmurs: \u201cAnd excuse me for being late.\u201d And maybe I shouldn\u2019t, but I absolutely do. \u2022 This article was amended on 6 and14 November 2017. An earlier version said that Campbell\u2019s first cover of British Elle was in 1996. That reference was meant to be to 1986, and while the model was not on the cover of Elle in 1986, she did feature in a photoshoot in the magazine that year."
"21||BBC extends Met Office weather contract due to delays in switch to rivalThe BBC has been forced to turn back to the Met Office for its weather information after a high-profile switch to a new provider was beset by delays. MeteoGroup was due to replace the Met Office last spring but its new system is months behind schedule and unlikely to be ready until next year. This has forced the BBC to sign a new contract with the Met Office until March 2018, despite having publicly ditched the company. The Met Office has provided data for the BBC\u2019s weather forecasts since the corporation\u2019s first radio weather bulletin in November 1922. However, the BBC announced two years ago it would seek a replacement as part of a cost-cutting drive. A source said there were disagreements between the BBC and MeteoGroup about the quality of the new package, though both organisations denied this. The BBC said the delay would not leave it out of pocket because the Met Office contract has been extended on existing terms and it would not begin paying MeteoGroup until the new system was live. Most weather presenters on the BBC have had their contracts moved from the Met Office to the corporation. Carol Kirkwood, one of the best-known weather presenters, was already directly employed by the BBC. A BBC spokesperson said: \u201cAs is well known, we\u2019re changing our weather services provider and it\u2019s only right we take the time to make sure the new and improved service and graphics provide audiences the best possible service. BBC Weather will continue to give people reliable forecasts on television, radio, online and our app.\u201d MeteoGroup said the process for rolling out its new services on the BBC was \u201crigorous\u201d. \u201cMeteoGroup was selected as a partner based on our ability to provide high-quality forecasting and new state-of-the art graphics solutions. The process of rolling these weather services out across all BBC platforms has been rigorous and the BBC and MeteoGroup are dedicated to ensuring viewers receive the best possible weather service.\u201d The Met Office confirmed it had signed a new deal with the BBC. A spokesperson said: \u201cAs the UK\u2019s national weather service, we will always ensure the UK public have the weather information they need so they can make informed decisions. We are continuing to provide the BBC with their weather services, having signed a contract out to March 2018. \u201cAs well as the BBC, we also partner ITV, STV, UTV, Channel 5, Sky and BFBS, and online news outlets such as the Guardian. We have found that more people now access forecasts online and on apps than on TV, and so the public can also access our forecasts though our highly successful app, the only weather app to feature video forecasts. \u2022 This article was amended on 8 November 2017. An earlier version suggested that most weather presenters will have their contracts moved from the Met Office to the BBC. This has been clarified to say that these contracts have been moved to the BBC."
"12||They voted for Brexit in a cry of pain \u2013 what happened to the left-behind?It was not much more than a year ago. The result of the EU referendum was still being pored over, and the political moment seemed to be all about two things: a view of much of the leave vote as a cry of pain and resentment from parts of the country beyond London, and the urgent need to do something. Journalists were still being dispatched to the supposed Brexit heartlands; among politicians, the idea was that now that such places as south Wales, the east of England, the Midlands and the non-urban north had spoken so loudly that their deep problems were finally going to be addressed. If you want a taste of what was briefly afoot, have a look at the text of Theresa May\u2019s Conservative conference speech from October 2016, delivered in the days when she was still in the business of strong and stable leadership and her backdrops did not collapse, both literally and metaphorically. She used the word \u201crevolution\u201d four times. \u201cIn June people voted for change,\u201d she said. \u201cAnd a change is going to come \u2026 this is a turning point for our country.\u201d She did not mean this only in terms of our exit from the EU: the referendum, she said, was nothing less than a \u201ccall for a change in the way our country works \u2013 and the people for whom it works \u2013 forever\u201d. Among other things, there was to be \u201can economic and cultural revival of all of our great regional cities\u201d, while the power of government would be placed \u201csquarely at the service of ordinary working-class people\u201d, and the gap between \u201cthe wealth of London and the rest of the country\u201d would be narrowed. Now, as her government decays, most of her words read like the founding statement of a project that never was. Clearly, even if most of the people who voted for Brexit still seem convinced that it was the right thing to do, there are few signs of any changes to the places where they live. Quite the reverse, in fact. Though the creation of the capital\u2019s beloved \u00a315bn Crossrail continues apace, plans to modernise railway lines in Wales, Yorkshire, the Midlands and Cumbria have all been shelved. Philip Hammond has promised train services in the north a derisory extra \u00a3300m (by way of comparison, the cost of HS2 is put at \u00a3400m per mile). Meanwhile, the austerity imposed on city and local government carries on, and the loudest sound coming from the most neglected parts of the country is the great howl of pain arising from the government\u2019s cruel changes to the benefits system. The Welsh town of Merthyr Tydfil became something of a byword for Brexit, and it seems just as symbolic of what has happened since: universal credit will arrive there next March, and the local council is facing at least another two years of cuts. Not that far away in Newport, Gwent, where 56% of people voted to leave the EU, the council leader also happens to be the head of the Welsh Local Government Association. \u201cServices are wearing down to the point of collapse, and the public are rightly growing frustrated in terms of paying council tax and yet seeing key community functions cut or closed,\u201d Debbie Wilcox says. \u201cThe whole position is unsustainable.\u201d At the heart of all this is the political irony that defines our times: that the very thing so many places voted for makes any attempt at their area\u2019s revival even less likely. The only economic rebalancing that looks set to arise from Brexit will be London becoming a bit less rich thanks to the downsizing of the City. The Herculean effort needed to even begin meaningful negotiations is so consuming to the machinery of government that it clearly has no capacity for anything else. And just look at this week\u2019s Brexit headlines: news that \u00a3500m has already been spent on preparing to leave the EU, that next year\u2019s outlays will be about \u00a31m a day, and that the number of extra civil servants who will be needed to deal with our departure is now put at 8,000. Imagine if all that money and effort were devoted to a policy aimed at reversing the country\u2019s long decline and thinking creatively about the future. That mess of contradictions might look like good news for the people who think Brexit has to be overturned. But in the context of the places that ensured that leave had a majority, they have their own set of problems. Whenever I spend time in Brexit-supporting areas, a few questions usually rattle through my mind. In the 17 months since the vote, has the coalition of forces \u2013 Labour and Tory remainers, Liberal Democrats, Greens \u2013 that now demands it is nullified given any serious thought to why so much of the country failed to heed its warnings, and continues to ignore them, even as promises go unmet, and Brexit grows dangerous and ever more complex? Do they have any kind of offer to leave voters in neglected places, beyond a second referendum and a return to the pre-2016 status quo? And hand on heart: if you are one of those people for whom a remain vote is now a matter of deep personal identity, has your view of the average Brexit supporter progressed much beyond a lazy caricature of Little Englander nastiness? Even if the prime minister has failed to make good on her promises of a rebalanced country, the Brexit moment embodies one aspect of her vision: the fact that, for the first time in decades, people and places that were long overlooked \u2013 sneered at, even \u2013 now sit at the core of our national politics. Though the Labour party\u2019s acceptance of Brexit and its failure to come up with much of an alternative might seem maddening, its position on the EU is not just down to the Eurosceptic instincts of Jeremy Corbyn and John McDonnell. Clearly, it is also locked into its position by the fact that most of the constituencies it holds \u2013 seven out of 10, according to credible estimates \u2013 voted to leave Europe, and the assumption that a critical number of the people who live in them are still of the opinion that Brexit has to happen, no matter what. If you want to be patronising about it, you could take the view that all this is down to the lies of the leave campaign and a mess of nastiness surrounding immigration. But from a more enlightened perspective, it might be more instructive to understand a lot of support for leave as the climax of years of decline, neglect and condescension \u2013 and something that is hardly going to be abandoned in a hurry. Forget, for a moment, all that noise about the fine details of the negotiations or whatever Liam Fox has said recently about chicken, and think about how the politics of Brexit will actually play out. If the government\u2019s weak grip on power offers the chance of renewed questioning of where the country is headed, some of the answer will arise from those remain-supporting MPs who now reluctantly back leaving the EU out of fear of their leave-voting constituents. Will those voters change their minds? If there is a contrast between the promises of national revival made only a year ago and the lack of action since, a lot will hang on whether that discrepancy has any traction, or collides with people\u2019s ingrained fatalism and fades away. Just as much will depend on the trade-off between economic damage and a deep belief in national sovereignty that runs much deeper among working-class leave supporters than some people would like to think. The future suddenly pivots on Merthyr and Mansfield, Walsall and Blackburn: symbolic of these unexpected, upturned times."
"22||Letter: Paul Oliver obituaryPaul Oliver was one of my earliest mentors. I was in my mid-teens when I wrote to him about my desire to document blues and jazz and he replied in generous terms. He was encouraging, friendly and helpful at a time when women were almost universally regarded with disdain in the jazz world. We met for the first time in 1958, outside the Royal Festival Hall, where he photographed me and my brother with the bluesmen Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee, using my mother\u2019s Box Brownie camera. When he and his wife, Valerie. embarked on their historic American field trip, I contributed a small amount to the supporting fund; later he told me about encountering segregation in the south and how, in Mississippi, because of the presence of a white woman, the couple were forced to travel separately in order to rendezvous with black musicians in the fields after nightfall. Paul was associated with two greats of African-American literature. In 1960 Richard Wright, the author of the books Black Boy and Native Son, contributed an introduction to his Blues Fell This Morning, observing that Paul \u201cwrote as if he\u2019d bummed around the Black Belt for years\u201d. Four years later, to Paul\u2019s delight, his Story of the Blues exhibition at the US embassy in London was attended by Langston Hughes, the \u201cpoet of Afro-America\u201d."
"23||Birmingham Royal Ballet review \u2013 gods, queens and dancing kangaroo ratsBallet, like the novel, has been pronounced dead \u2013 or terminally exhausted \u2013 at regular intervals throughout its history, and now, as the art form squares up to the challenges of the 21st-century box office, companies are competitively scenting out fresh blood and fresh ideas. However, the institutionalised nature of ballet and the conservatism of some of its traditions can make it difficult for young talent to flourish, let alone find recognition. So it\u2019s hats off to Birmingham Royal Ballet and Sadler\u2019s Wells for their scheme to commission 10 new works over a five year period, bringing together choreographers, composers and designers who are new or relatively new to the mainstream of British ballet. No one could quarrel with the fine, hopeful principles of the Ballet Now programme. Yet the detail is critical. Nurturing talent is a sensitive business, and the new ballet with which BRB have chosen to launch their scheme illustrates both how tricky, and how necessary, the process can be. Arcadia is the creation of company dancer Ruth Brill and composer/saxophonist John Harle, and initially it seems like a sparky and original collaboration. Harle\u2019s music ranges across a wonderfully undomesticated sound world \u2013 punchy, pugnacious percussion, hot Middle Eastern melodies \u2013 and it\u2019s his solo saxophone writing to which Brill responds most vividly, using it to drive a language of flickering, animalistic virtuosity for Pan, the hero of her Arcadia. As danced by the charismatic Brandon Lawrence, Pan is a pleasingly enigmatic character; there\u2019s a bit of Nijinsky\u2019s feral Faun in the mix, as he spies lustfully on three dancing nymphs. In partnership with the moon goddess (an evanescent C\u00e9line Gittens), he turns more lyrically expansive. But Brill\u2019s attempt to tell a story of Pan\u2019s deepening maturity becomes lost among a sequence of ensemble dances whose relevance to the plot is unclear and whose language, like Harle\u2019s accompanying music, degrades into a sprightly but bland conventionality. Perhaps Brill and Harle needed more time together; perhaps a dramaturge would have sharpened the ballet\u2019s focus \u2013 certainly it feels as though all the initially exciting potential in Arcadia has been allowed to go astray. The magic name of Diaghilev has predictably been invoked during the launch of Ballet Now \u2013 no one else has come close to harnessing so much brilliant new talent for dance. But Diaghilev\u2019s success was partly due to his willingness to interfere in the works that he commissioned, personally educate his young choreographers and make exacting demands on his composers and designers in the name of great art \u2013 or, at the very least, great box office. It would be interesting to speculate what action he might have taken with Stravinsky\u2019s Le Baiser de la f\u00e9e, had he commissioned this 1928 score for his own company. As music, Baiser is delicately, mysteriously beautiful. Yet BRB\u2019s revival of the ballet Michael Corder made of it in 2008 underlines the problems that were recently presented in Scottish Ballet\u2019s revival of the Kenneth MacMillan version, namely that the score is only intermittently successful as a vehicle for a story ballet. Stravinsky wrote Baiser as a homage to Tchaikovsky, and in doing so allowed himself to luxuriate in some of the conventions of 19th-century ballet music, especially its extended musical interludes for divertissements and pas deux. Corder, effortlessly at home in those conventions, has no problem filling the music with elegant ensembles and beautifully knit steps, and he\u2019s served by a fine cast, especially Jenna Roberts, remote and imperious as the Fairy, and Momoko Hirata, who brings her exquisitely etched classicism to the role of the Bride. But Stravinsky\u2019s score lacks those moments of instant legible musical drama that give narrative support to a choreographer and Corder, like others before him, is unable to give sufficiently stark weight to the ballet\u2019s key scenes: the Fairy\u2019s callous theft of the baby from his mother, and the young man\u2019s shocked confusion when he discovers that he has betrayed his bride for the allure of his supernatural mistress. While this Baiser is gorgeously easy on the eye, it fails to deliver the dread, supernatural terror of the original Hans Christian Andersen tale. The beauty of a score and a dance concept that fit together perfectly is demonstrated in David Bintley\u2019s Still Life at the Penguin Cafe, which closes this programme. Simon Jeffes\u2019s music, with its seam of poignant, plangent nostalgia running through its riotous eclecticism, plays both to the showman and the moralist in Bintley. His choreographic tone is pretty much pitch perfect, as his carnival of exotic dancing animals deepens to become a moving image of the world\u2019s endangered species fleeing a polluted planet. BRB\u2019s cast live and dance their material to the hilt, from Tzu-Chao Chou\u2019s sweetly hyperactive Texas Kangaroo Rat to Brandon Lawrence as the dignified patriarch of a dying tribe."
"24||Nantucket cranberries \u2013 painting the Massachusetts island redFor the past 160 years every autumn, the diminutive island of Nantucket has turned scarlet, thanks to the cranberry harvest. The fields are deliberately flooded and the submerged vines are beaten to detach the ripe, red berries, which then float to the surface. This tart, wild, native berry was a superfood for Native Americans. The Wampanoag, indigenous to what is now New England, called them ibimi \u2013 bitter berry \u2013 and used them for cooking, medicine and dyeing fabric. They introduced them to the Pilgrim Fathers in 1620 \u2013 and legend has it that they were part of the first Thanksgiving feast in 1621 (although the now-traditional cranberry sauce didn\u2019t appear until 1912). English settlers dubbed them \u201ccraneberries\u201d, because their pink flowers resemble the head of a sandhill crane. Grown on low vines in beds known as \u201cbogs\u201d, lined with peat, gravel and clay and topped with sand, a strong vine can survive for many years, given a supply of fresh water. Commercial cultivation began in Nantucket in 1857, and by the 1950s the island\u2019s Milestone Bog was the world\u2019s largest contiguous cranberry bog. Today, the Nantucket Conservation Foundation cultivates the island\u2019s two commercial cranberry bogs \u2013 an area of 232 acres, which can produce around 900 tonnes of fruit a year. Windswept Bog has been organic since 2001, and Milestone Bog is following suit. The bogs are tied in with conservation: every acre of bog is supported by four to 10 acres of wildlife-rich wetlands and woodland. While they\u2019re rich in vitamin C (New England sailors ate them on long whaling expeditions to prevent scurvy), the versatile fruit can be put to many uses. To try some of the best Nantucket cranberry pie, head to Bartlett\u2019s Farm; for boozy options, the island\u2019s artisan Cisco Brewers has created a tasty Cranberry Woods beer; and the Nautilus Nantucket restaurant\u2019s signature cocktail is made with fresh cranberry juice, tequila and lime. Traveling around North America? Find discount codes for Expedia hotels and more, at discountcode.theguardian.com/us"
"3||Computer says no: why making AIs fair, accountable and transparent is crucialIn October, American teachers prevailed in a lawsuit with their school district over a computer program that assessed their performance. The system rated teachers in Houston by comparing their students\u2019 test scores against state averages. Those with high ratings won praise and even bonuses. Those who fared poorly faced the sack. The program did not please everyone. Some teachers felt that the system marked them down without good reason. But they had no way of checking if the program was fair or faulty: the company that built the software, the SAS Institute, regards its algorithm a trade secret and would not disclose its workings. The teachers took their case to court and a federal judge ruled that use of the EVAAS (Educational Value Added Assessment System) program may violate their civil rights. In settling the case, the school district paid the teachers\u2019 fees and agreed to stop using the software. The law has treated others differently. When Wisconsin police arrested Eric Loomis in 2013 for driving a car used in a shooting, he was handed a hefty prison term in part because a computer algorithm known as Compas judged him at high risk of re-offending. Loomis challenged the sentence because he was unable to check the program. His argument was rejected by the Wisconsin supreme court. The arrival of artificial intelligence has raised concerns over computerised decisions to a new high. Powerful AIs are proliferating in society, through banks, legal firms and businesses, into the National Health Service and government. It is not their popularity that is problematic; it is whether they are fair and can be held to account. Researchers have documented a long list of AIs that make bad decisions either because of coding mistakes or biases ingrained in the data they trained on. Bad AIs have flagged the innocent as terrorists, sent sick patients home from hospital, lost people their jobs and car licences, had people kicked off the electoral register, and chased the wrong men for child support bills. They have discriminated on the basis of names, addresses, gender and skin colour. Bad intentions are not needed to make bad AI. A company might use an AI to search CVs for good job applicants after training it on information about people who rose to the top of the firm. If the culture at the business is healthy, the AI might well spot promising candidates, but if not, it might suggest people for interview who think nothing of trampling on their colleagues for a promotion. Opening the black box How to make AIs fair, accountable and transparent is now one of the most crucial areas of AI research. Most AIs are made by private companies who do not let outsiders see how they work. Moreover, many AIs employ such complex neural networks that even their designers cannot explain how they arrive at answers. The decisions are delivered from a \u201cblack box\u201d and must essentially be taken on trust. That may not matter if the AI is recommending the next series of Game of Thrones. But the stakes are higher if the AI is driving a car, diagnosing illness, or holding sway over a person\u2019s job or prison sentence. Last month, the AI Now Institute at New York University, which researches the social impact of AI, urged public agencies responsible for criminal justice, healthcare, welfare and education, to ban black box AIs because their decisions cannot be explained. \u201cWe can\u2019t accept systems in high stakes domains that aren\u2019t accountable to the public,\u201d Kate Crawford, a co-founder of the institute, told the Guardian. The report said AIs should pass pre-release trials and be monitored \u201cin the wild\u201d so that biases and other faults are swiftly corrected. Tech firms know that coming regulations and public pressure may demand AIs that can explain their decisions, but developers want to understand them too. Klaus-Robert M\u00fcller, professor of machine learning at the Technical University of Berlin, has trained an AI to diagnose breast cancer using variety of medical data. It is not good enough for the AI to simply spit out a diagnosis, he says. \u201cIt\u2019s absolutely mandatory for the individual patient to know what the heck is going on.\u201d To understand how their AI reached decisions, M\u00fcller and his team developed an inspection program known as Layerwise Relevance Propagation, or LRP. It can take an AI\u2019s decision and work backwards through the program\u2019s neural network to reveal how a decision was made. In a simple test, M\u00fcller\u2019s team used LRP to work out how two top-performing AIs recognised horses in a vast library of images used by computer vision scientists. While one AI focused rightly on the animal\u2019s features, the other based its decision wholly on a bunch of pixels at the bottom left corner of each horse image. The pixels turned out to contain a copyright tag for the horse pictures. The AI worked perfectly for entirely spurious reasons. \u201cThis is why opening the black box is important,\u201d says M\u00fcller. \u201cWe have to make sure we get the right answers for the right reasons.\u201d In many cases, the AI black box need not be opened. Sandra Wachter, a lawyer and researcher in data ethics and algorithms at the Oxford Internet Institute and the Alan Turing Institute, worked with her colleagues Brent Mittelstadt and Chris Russell to develop another approach. Instead of exposing the full inner workings of an AI, it figures out what it would take to change the AI\u2019s decision. Suppose an AI turns down a mortgage applicant. Wachter\u2019s method might reveal that the loan was denied because the person\u2019s income was \u00a330,000, but would have been approved if it was \u00a345,000. It allows the decision to be challenged and informs the person what needs to change to get the loan. For some researchers, the time to start regulating AI has arrived. \u201cWe have seen too many slip-ups, and AI is too powerful not to have government be part of the solution,\u201d said Craig Fagan, policy director at Tim Berners-Lee\u2019s Web Foundation. \u201cIt\u2019s asking companies to take on a lot of responsibility to manage such rapid economic, political and social transformation and not have some government oversight.\u201d Joanna Bryson, an AI researcher at the University of Bath, thinks AI companies might be regulated like architects who learn to work with city planners, certification schemes and licences to make buildings safe. \u201cPeople die and governments change because of stuff that happens with software. It\u2019s got to be more regulated,\u201d she said. Europe is ahead of other parts of the world in drawing up regulations to protect people from badly made or used AI. Next May, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) comes into force in Britain and across the continent. At first glance, it gives people the right to know when companies are making automated decisions of any importance about them. It also mentions a right to explanation and the right to challenge automated decisions. In practice GDPR is far weaker than the rights suggest. The right to be informed applies before decisions are made, not after the fact. And decisions can only be challenged when they are completely automated from start to finish, and the outcome of the decision has legal or other similarly significant effects. The obligation vanishes if there is the slightest form of human involvement. For example, a bank could have an employee rubber stamp loans approved by an AI, while a law firm might have a PA invite people for interview after their CVs were ranked by an AI. \u201cAs soon as you put a human in the loop, the safeguards no longer apply,\u201d said Wachter. The right to explanation appears even weaker. In early drafts, the European Parliament proposed to make the right legally binding, but it was demoted during later negotiations to no more than a guideline - and police and other crime-fighting organisation are exempt even from this. Along with Luciano Floridi and Brent Mittelstadt at the Oxford Internet Institute, Wachter has called for a European AI watchdog to police the technology. The body would need powers to send independent investigators into organisations to scrutinise their AIs and extract meaningful explanations. To keep people safe, AIs could be certified for use in critical arenas such as medicine, criminal justice and driverless cars. \u201cIf we\u2019re deploying them in critical infrastructure, we need to be sure they meet safety standards,\u201d Wachter said. \u201cWe need transparency as far as it is achievable, but above all we need to have a mechanism to redress whatever goes wrong, some kind of ombudsman,\u201d said Floridi. \u201cIt\u2019s only the government that can do that.\u201d"
"15||Everything You Do Is Wrong review \u2013 dark laughs and plot twistsContemplating the eating disorder she is trying to cultivate, lumpen, horny, 15-year-old Harmony is reminded of a M\u00f6bius strip: what to do when you need, but can\u2019t afford, both Senokot and KitKats? Similar flares of mordant wit, as well as more painful spasms, punctuate Amanda Coe\u2019s third novel, whose unfolding secrets eventually bring us full circle, back to the stony beach where her story begins. It is here that a mute, amnesiac woman is discovered by Harmony\u2019s aunt, but perhaps the greater mystery surrounds Harmony\u2019s mother, who has retreated into the vacancy not of silent forgetfulness, but depression. Coe\u2019s bleak coastal town is a fitting backdrop for a novel that, for all its dark laughs and plot twists, ultimately seems to resign its central characters to the unhappy loops of their lives. \u2022 Everything You Do Is Wrong by Amanda Coe is published by Fleet (\u00a314.99). To order a copy for \u00a312.74 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"4||America in grave danger from terrorists? The numbers tell a different storyIt didn\u2019t take Donald Trump long to respond to the horrific terror attack in Manhattan on Tuesday in which eight people were killed and 12 wounded. Within 24 hours, the president tweeted: \u201cWe must not allow Isis to return, or enter, our country after defeating them in the Middle East and elsewhere. Enough!\u201d In fact, terrorist groups are far from defeated in the Middle East or elsewhere in the world. As the graphic above shows, Tuesday\u2019s attack was surprising because it took place in a region that is very safe relative to other parts of the world. Data The numbers for this image come from the Global Terrorism Database. It\u2019s an enormous dataset that tracks terrorist attacks going back to 1970, keeping information on things like weapons used, motives, targets and of course the date and location of the incident. The information is managed by Start, a US Department of Homeland Security Center of Excellence located at the University of Maryland. But it\u2019s far from perfect. For one thing, its methodology has changed, which means that comparisons over time might paint a misleading picture about how much terrorist attacks have increased in frequency. These flaws are particularly disappointing given that this is the best public data that exists on terrorism. Design I was inspired by this graphic by Johan Ekman this week. But I wanted to check his information, update it and add extra detail. My first step was to download the most recent version of the Global Terrorism Database, which includes 383,554 fatalities from terrorism. The 170,350 terrorist attacks in this list span the period from 1 January 1970 to 31 December 2016. There were, however, many incidents where a specific date was not known, only a year \u2013 these were listed in the database with dates such as 0/0/1970. Where specific dates weren\u2019t available, I excluded the incidents from the dataset. This meant that 1,211 fatalities (or 0.3% of all the fatalities in the database) were not included in my final analysis. I first created a simple timeline of all fatalities. I immediately noticed that the original graphic by Ekman excluded an important event. For some reason, it didn\u2019t include one of the deadliest attacks of the past 47 years. The database provides the following description: 06/12/2014: Assailants abducted approximately 1,686 soldiers from Camp Speicher in Tikrit city, Saladin governorate, Iraq. Two captives escaped custody and at least 1,500, if not all of the remaining victims, are presumed dead. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant [Isis] claimed responsibility and stated that the attacks were in revenge for the killing of [Isis] leader Abdul-Rahman al-Beilawy. In 2015, according to a Reuters report, Iraqi forensic teams began exhuming bodies from their mass graves. That single terrorist attack (which I hadn\u2019t heard of before looking at this database) radically changes the scale of the chart. Next, I charted fatalities in North America and western Europe. The high bar there is 11 September 2001 when, according to the database, 2,998 people were killed. (As with many terrorist attacks, estimates of the final number of fatalities can vary between sources.) Then I charted fatalities in other regions: I immediately noticed a gap in 1993 \u2013 and the explanation is a surprising one. It turns out that the data was originally written on index cards and the researchers lost the cards for 1993 before they were able to turn them into electronic copies. Other than that, there\u2019s not much to be observed from this chart, since it\u2019s so difficult to discern which regions have more fatalities on any given day. To exaggerate those differences, I changed this chart so I could compare the percentage of fatalities on each day that come from each region. Now, it\u2019s clear that most fatalities occur in sub-Saharan Africa, south Asia and the Middle East and North Africa. Finally, I limited the data to the most recent 10 years so as not to include older, less accurate, data from the source. I drew the outline of the chart by hand then pasted on the specific bars (which are too narrow to draw by hand) from the charts I created in Microsoft Excel. It\u2019s not perfect, but neither is the data behind it. What\u2019s unambiguous in the data and in the final design is that deaths from terrorism remain rare in North America and western Europe, compared with the rest of the world. If there is a statistic you would like to see visualized, please write to me at mona.chalabi@theguardian.com"
"7||Gerrymander 5K: run highlights absurdity of Republican redistrictingRunners taking part in a 5km race in a small city in North Carolina on Saturday afternoon could have been forgiven for feeling dizzy, as they followed a zigzag course that took them, literally, all around the houses. The event was intended as a live demonstration of the absurdity and insidiousness of the way voting boundaries have been redrawn \u2013 or gerrymandered \u2013 in Asheville, a liberal town at the western end of the state. The head-spinning route of the \u201cGerrymander 5K\u201d turned sharp corners and went forward and back on itself, snaking through town and wriggling along barely populated streets and odd blocks with no sidewalks. The runners were following an invisible line that since 2011 has divided what was previously a single US congressional seat into two odd-shaped districts. The line split the electorate in a swing district that often voted Democratic. Each half was thus in a new district dominated by a traditionally Republican rural area. The result was that the GOP now has a firm lock on power in Asheville, a progressive enclave in a red state that is now represented in Washington by two Republicans, one an ultra-conservative. Race organizers planned the event as a protest over an issue that is under scrutiny by the US supreme court. \u201cAsheville is the starkest example in the nation of how gerrymandering makes our politics polarised and our politicians unrepresentative of voters\u2019 wishes in many areas, and the electorate is powerless to do anything about it,\u201d said David Daley, before setting off to run the course. Daley, who traveled to North Carolina from Massachusetts, was due to speak at a post-race rally about the issues raised in his 2016 book, Ratf**ked. Subtitled The True Story Behind the Secret Plan to Steal America\u2019s Democracy, Daley\u2019s book takes its title from a vulgar term for down and dirty political sabotaging, made popular during the Watergate scandal. \u201cGerrymandering has been with us in America for a long time,\u201d he said, \u201cbut in 2010 Republicans devised a brilliant new strategy for using it in the 21st century that put the practice on steroids and made it more dangerous than at any time in our history,\u201d he said. After Barack Obama won the White House for the Democrats in 2008, Republicans raised massive election war chests. In 2010, they duly won control of the House of Representatives and many state legislatures. State legislatures have the power to redraw electoral boundaries every 10 years, to coincide with the national census. Many Republican-controlled statehouses took advantage of the 2010 census and fast-emerging, house-by-house mapping software to reshape electoral districts, packing opposition voters into fewer seats or, as in Asheville, dividing and diluting them with a majority of Republicans. \u201cNorth Carolina is particularly known for gerrymandering,\u201d said Alana Pierce, president of the League of Women Voters of Asheville-Buncombe County, which organized the 5K run. Gerrymandering is not an exclusively Republican tactic, Pierce said, \u201cbut the Republicans did it so egregiously in 2011\u201d. Gerrymandering is often challenged in the courts on grounds of discrimination against minority voters, particularly African Americans who largely vote Democratic. The US supreme court has recently excoriated North Carolina for this. But the tactic can also have a partisan effect regardless of ethnicity. Asheville, like its surrounding area, is predominantly white. Several hundred runners were signed up to race, jog or walk along the Gerrymander 5K route which looked, on a map, as though a kid had got carried away with an Etch-A-Sketch. Before the redistricting, Asheville had one representative in Congress: Heath Shuler, a former pro-football quarterback and a conservative Democrat. Now, the picturesque college-town of almost 90,000 has been engulfed by two solid GOP districts. One of the two US congressmen elected in 2012 is Mark Meadows, chairman of the House Freedom Caucus, a force of the ultra-conservative Tea Party movement. \u201cIt\u2019s fundamentally messing with democracy,\u201d said Pierce, adding that the state legislature is now considering gerrymandering districts for judicial and city elections in the state as well. John Kennedy, a video producer and artist in Asheville who came up with the idea for Saturday\u2019s run, said non-partisan judicial panels should demarcate voting districts based on county lines or physical features such as mountains and rivers. \u201cDemocrats must have been asleep at the wheel when the Republicans took this gerrymandering to a whole new level,\u201d he said. All eyes are now on the US supreme court, which is considering a landmark case with national implications in which Wisconsin Republicans are accused of an abuse of power, after computer-assisted redistricting allowed the party to win a supermajority in the state assembly despite losing the popular vote. \u201cVoters feel manipulated,\u201d said Kennedy."
"2||Scotland rugby league players \u2018too drunk to board flight\u2019 are sent homeScotland\u2019s World Cup campaign has descended into chaos after three of their players \u2013 including their captain and star player \u2013 were sent home from the tournament for misconduct. The trio are understood to have been too drunk to board a flight. The Huddersfield half-back and Scotland captain, Danny Brough, Featherstone\u2019s Sam Brooks and the former Super League forward Johnny Walker will play no further part in the World Cup after remaining in Christchurch over the weekend as the squad departed for their final group game in Cairns. It is understood the trio were refused permission to fly back to Australia after being too drunk to fly to Brisbane \u2013 leaving their international careers hanging in the balance. The remainder of the Scotland squad, who have suffered comprehensive defeats by Tonga and New Zealand in the opening fortnight of the tournament, continue to Cairns for Saturday\u2019s decisive Group B game against Samoa. \u201cWe expect everyone involved in Scotland Rugby League to adhere to the highest standards of behaviour,\u201d said the Scotland RL chairman, Keith Hogg. \u201cWe fully support the code of conduct that is in place for everyone who is involved in the 2017 World Cup. \u201cWe all understand our responsibilities to the game and we must respect the sport and everyone who is involved in it at all times. Unfortunately these three players have not adhered to those standards and those values and will be leaving early from a tournament that it is a privilege for us to be involved in.\u201d The France hooker \u00c9loi P\u00e9lissier has also been sent home for misconduct, which is understood to have been for breaking a team curfew. P\u00e9lissier, 26, who joined Leigh from Catalans Dragons just over a year ago, played in France\u2019s 52-6 defeat by Australia in Canberra on Friday and was expected to face England in the final Group A match in Perth next Sunday. It is the second disciplinary breach for the French, who left the Hull utility player Hakim Miloudi behind for disciplinary reasons after he played in their warm-up match against Jamaica in Perpignan. Scotland\u2019s hopes of qualification are still in their own hands and they will reach the quarter-finals should they beat Samoa. However, the same cannot be said for Wales, whose chances of progressing are over following their second successive heavy defeat in the group stages. John Kear\u2019s side were beaten 72-6 by Fiji in Townsville on Sunday, meaning they cannot qualify from Group C. They have conceded 122 points in two games following their 50-6 defeat by Papua New Guinea in Port Moresby and are now playing only for pride against Ireland on Sunday. Ireland can still qualify with a win in that game but they need a minor miracle from the US, who must beat PNG \u2013 who are unbeaten at the tournament \u2013 to open the door for Mark Aston\u2019s side to reach the quarter-finals. They were beaten 14-6 by the Kumuls in Port Moresby to leave PNG firmly in control of Group C. The winners of that group are likely to face England in the quarter-finals in Melbourne. If, as expected, England are paired with PNG, perhaps the one small mercy for Wayne Bennett\u2019s side is that the game will be held in Melbourne instead of the hostile environment which has greeted Ireland and Wales in Port Moresby throughout the group stages. England will secure second place in Group A with a victory against France on Sunday and, following an underwhelming 29-10 victory against Lebanon on Saturday, the England wing Ryan Hall admits they will need to improve against the French with the knockout stages looming. \u201cLooking at that performance, we\u2019ve got quite a bit to improve on,\u201d said Hall following the win against the Cedars. \u201cI don\u2019t think it will be hard to improve on it either, because we weren\u2019t very good. \u201cBizarrely I think we played better against Australia when we lost \u2013 but that\u2019s the World Cup for you, I guess. I think we were better across the board against them but I can\u2019t quite put my finger on what happened here.\u201d With a potential quarter-final now a fortnight away, Hall is acutely aware that England\u2019s performances must improve, starting against France. \u201cYou\u2019ve got to play well ahead of the knockouts,\u201d he said. \u201cWe\u2019ve got one more game before that and we\u2019ve got to execute better and play better. Then we\u2019re into the knockouts, which is when the pressure starts building.\u201d"
"11||UK drags heels on sending mass rape investigators to MyanmarA Foreign Office team specialising in gathering evidence of sexual violence in conflict zones has yet to be deployed to Myanmar\u2019s refugee camps despite evidence that systematic mass rape has been used as a weapon by the Burmese military against the Rohingya muslim minority. The specialist group was set up by William Hague as foreign secretary in 2012 as part of his joint effort with the actor Angelina Jolie to highlight the pervasive use of sexual violence in conflict. He regards the initiative as one of his chief legacies. The Foreign Office (FCO) has said it is still assessing the need for a team, even though aid agencies have reported the mass use of rape, including of children as young as 10. The burning and violence in Rakhine state started at the end of August and the FCO minister Lord Ahmad has described reports of sexual violence against the Rohingya as \u201cstaggering\u201d. Hague and his former special adviser Lady Helic have written to the FCO to demand to know what it is doing to investigate and document rape allegations against Burmese forces. As many as 600,000 refugees have fled to Bangladesh, with aid agencies, such as Doctors without Borders and the International Organization for Migration, reporting hundreds of cases of rape and sexual violence amongst refugees. The FCO is supposed to have a roster of health experts on standby ready to travel to war zones to investigate allegations of sexual violence, and to gather evidence that could be used in international criminal courts. The experts were deployed in Syria, South Sudan, Libya and Bosnia. The team of experts consists of health specialists, lawyers, police officers, psychologists and forensic scientists. It was set up in 2012 to help local authorities where crimes of sexual violence were reported and local bodies did not have the capacity to help. The team is expected to prevent evidence of sexual violence being lost, compile documentation and to identify perpetrators and ringleaders. By 2013, the foreign secretary had recruited more than 70 experts. One source said: \u201cThe Foreign Office appears [to be] very good at revising strategy papers \u2026 but less good at doing anything about it. The issue is incredibly urgent, and the team was set up for precisely these purposes. The evidence has to be gathered now, and not when a bureaucracy is ready to do so. The long-term psychological damage of sexual violence, including the attached stigma, is so dreadful. It can damage relations within a family sometimes for even longer than a death.\u201d In their joint letter, Hague and Helic say the international community has a responsibility to ensure rape is never used as a weapon of war to intimidate humiliate and persecute ethnic minorities. Before the current violence, efforts to criminalise rape and protect women by law in Myanmar foundered, despite efforts in the Myanmar parliament. The FCO said it was assessing what support the UK might provide at Cox\u2019s Bazaar, the main refugee site. The Department for International Development has provided \u00a347m in aid, but none earmarked specifically to address the issue of sexual violence. The FCO minister Mark Field was also one of the first European ministers to reach Rakhine state, even though he was not allowed to visit the border. He has described the behaviour of the Buddhist forces as ethnic cleansing. Many of the refugees do not wish to return because they do not feel safe, and there is a dispute between Bangladeshi and Burmese authorities whether their return is even possible. Field has said \u201cunless we get repatriation at an early stage, the perception from the Burmese military \u2013 and in the international community \u2013 will be that they have got their own way. It is, in my view, of utmost urgency to get some repatriation \u2013 we need to do that \u2013 but part and parcel of that is having villages in which people can live. Many have been burned. Rebuilding will not necessarily take quite so painstakingly long, provided that the international community has access to Rakhine.\u201d Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of the ruling party, has been widely criticised for her failure to condemn the behaviour of the military, but her defenders claim that in a hybrid regime in which the military dominate the major ministries, including the responsibility for borders, she is walking a political tightrope. She visited Rakhine state last week for the first time since her National League for Democracy was elected in 2015, and last month set up a new national aid body that she will chair to hasten long-term development to reduce poverty in Rakhine, one of the poorest areas of Myanmar. One of her advisers, speaking on condition of anonymity, said \u201cif sanctions are imposed it will have cataclysmic consequences for her, and no one so far I know has a plan B for Myanmar\u201d. The pope is also due to visit Myanmar at the end of this this month in his first visit to a predominantly Buddhist country and her advisers see the visit as \u201can immense opportunity to combat the role hate speech is playing in the country\u201d. \u201cPeople in the country recognise the religious language she has been using, so people understand she is trying to appropriate language of religion hijacked by religious extremists. So much of this has been fuelled by the language of hatred. Freedom from hate has become almost her new version of freedom from fear.\u201d Her advisers say: \u201cIn her speeches in September and October she had tried to define what a national Burmese humanitarian effort might constitute, and the fact that excluded the military, seen as the guardians of Burma since 1940, is very significant. Until the constitution is changed there can be no settled democratic future for the country.\u201d Dfid stressed that much of the \u00a347m it is now providing to help refugees in Myanmar will go to help victims of sexual violence. \u201cUK aid is helping to provide counselling and psychological support that will reach over 10,000 women suffering from the trauma of war and over 2,000 survivors of sexual violence,\u201d it said in a statement. It added it was supporting the International Organization for Migration (IOM) to operate five mobile medical teams and five health posts to help address gender-based violence. \u2022 This article was amended on 7 November 2017. An earlier version misnamed the International Organization for Migration as the International Office of Migration."
"6||Saturday Night Live: Larry David's concentration camp gags set sorry toneThe show opens with Alec-Baldwin-as-Trump enjoying a shower with Paul Manafort, Jeff Sessions and Vladimir Putin. \u201cI thought we should all get used to wearing stripes!\u201d grins Kate McKinnon, as Sessions. \u201cI\u2019m going to roll over like the half-possum I am,\u201d he continues, if the Fed comes after him. Trump says to Paul Manafort: \u201cI can\u2019t pardon you right now \u2026 we\u2019re gonna wait a few weeks and dress you like a turkey and then pardon you.\u201d Larry David slopes down the stairs, past the band. Is Larry David still funny? When he says \u201cYou tolerate me!\u201d the audience responds with warm laughs. He goes on to discuss his erstwhile life in New York. He makes some jokes about disabled people and then, in a week of high political intrigue and a tragic terrorist attack in Manhattan, he decides to talk about Harvey Weinstein. \u201cI couldn\u2019t help but notice a very disturbing pattern emerging,\u201d David says, turning to the question of sexual harassment. \u201cMany of the predators \u2026 are Jews.\u201d He pauses to accept the nervous laughs. He continues: \u201cI\u2019ve often wondered \u2026 if I\u2019d grown up in Poland, when Hitler came to power, and was sent to a concentration camp, would I still be checking out women in the camp?\u201d The audience groans, but he carries on: \u201cThere are no good opening lines in a concentration camp.\u201d \u201cNot a good segue,\u201d says my husband, a dedicated fan of Curb Your Enthusiasm, as David switches to: \u201cAnyway, we\u2019ve got a great show tonight \u2026\u201d The first sketch takes off the Price is Right, which feels anachronistic and much too long. In the next set-up, in celebration of indictment week, Aidy Bryant arrives in a hideous pink business dress as Sarah Sanders. \u201cY\u2019all are obsessed with this, it\u2019s frickin\u2019 lame,\u201d she says, before breaking into a Demi Lovato-esque music video dream sequence. \u201cWhat\u2019s wrong with me?\u201d she sings. \u201cWhat\u2019s wrong with me?\u201d It\u2019s a perfect take on a poisonous person. Next: Cecily Strong plays the host of the Ad Council awards dinner, with David as a distinguished ad man with a John Adams-style white ponytail who made PSAs with straplines like \u201cthat\u2019s gay\u201d. David sputters. \u2018Obviously \u2026 the ending doesn\u2019t hold up.\u201d They shoehorn in a Bill Cosby joke before the sketch ends, mercifully. Miley Cyrus leads a number of cast members in a dance called \u201cthe Baby Step\u201d. David is not in it, as he says to the camera during various cuts. Then he introduces Cyrus\u2019s first number. She is wearing an impressive floor-length evening dress with fishnet accents. She sings a song about always waking up in a bad mood. \u201cSame!\u201d I think. Weekend Update takes on Manafort: \u201cNo one has three passports, a burner phone and good intentions. Except maybe Santa Claus,\u201d says Colin Jost. Michael Che says: \u201cI\u2019m tired of reading the president\u2019s tweets \u2026 indictments are important and you work for us. So go put on your baggy suit, fold your hair nice, and answer the questions \u2026 we shouldn\u2019t have to worry that the president is communicating with us from his toilet.\u201d At last, Jost addresses the Manhattan terrorist attack, citing Trump\u2019s suggestion that the diversity visa program should be suspended. \u201cWe don\u2019t look at Trump,\u201d he says, \u201cand think we should get rid of all presidents.\u201d To comment on the Robert Mueller arrests, Mikey Day and Alex Moffat visit as the Trump sons. Eric struggles to pronounce \u201cPapadopoulos\u201d, who Donald Jr calls \u201ca pity hire\u201d, and Eric shouts out: \u201cHe was my boss!\u201d Donald Jr hands him a tub of Halloween candy. Eric starts eating a Fun Dip incorrectly. Addressing allegations about racism and American Airlines, Che makes a joke about black people being late and then says, \u201cIt\u2019s OK for me to make that joke because \u2026 I am racist.\u201d Heidi Garner joins the desk as \u201cevery boxer\u2019s girlfriend in every movie\u201d and then \u201cnew baseball fan\u201d Leslie Jones gives her take on the Astros\u2019 World Series victory over the Dodgers. And then some of the Astros join her on stage, to great audience screaming. \u201cGood things do come in small packages,\u201d Jones says to the most petite of the three. High school in-school television is mocked next, which feels a little too easy, though David plays a history teacher with a penchant for sexy teenage gossip with great realism. In the next sketch, he mansplains queer movements thanks to his new young wife, played by Cecily Strong. \u201cShe\u2019s either 18 or 55,\u201d he says, as she sings a song surrounded by buff and topless backup dancers. McKinnon watches David monologuing which a look of bemusement that may not be acting, and which definitely seems not to be acting once David gets red-faced, seems to go off-script and everyone is compelled to improvise. Miley Cyrus sings again, this time in a white jumpsuit that I find less relatable than the song about morning grumpiness. And then there\u2019s just enough time for a sketch in which David shreds a guitar and stabs someone. The writers are using all their last-minute trash material. To bid everyone goodnight, David changes into a normcore brown sweater and pants. I think everyone looks like they feel relieved. I do."
"0||Chelsea\u2019s Antonio Conte pleas for patience after Abramovich visitWith Roman Abramovich having dropped in at Chelsea\u2019s training ground in the past week, it would have been understandable if a sense of angst had fallen over Antonio Conte as Stamford Bridge prepares for the return of Jos\u00e9 Mourinho. It was only a week, after all, since Conte was reacting to rumours of dressing-room discontent and talk of Carlo Ancelotti being lined up to replace him by turning the air blue in leafy Cobham. \u201cBullshit\u201d was the Italian\u2019s word of choice, but he may well have found himself using more industrial language to his players after their performance in Rome on Tuesday did nothing to alleviate the mounting pressure on their manager. It is a compliment of sorts to say that life is never dull at Chelsea. They host Manchester United on Sunday afternoon knowing that defeat would plunge them deeper into crisis and leave their title defence in tatters after 11 games. Conte is already openly wondering if Manchester City, who hold a nine-point lead over the champions, can be caught and the mood is low after the humbling by Roma. News of Abramovich popping by has inevitably raised a few eyebrows. But Conte is not running scared. The Italian stressed that his relationship with his boss remains convivial but he also talked up his arrival at Chelsea last year and suggested he is unfazed by the prospect of the axe falling on him. \u201cHonestly, I think I earned my time here with the win of last season,\u201d he said. \u201cI earned my time. I don\u2019t like to ask for time. I like to tell the truth. The situation is very clear. My task is to work and to put all myself for this club. Then if it\u2019s enough? OK. It won\u2019t be enough? OK. The same. I will continue to live.\u201d From a man regularly described as itching to return to Italy and unlikely to reach the end of a contract that runs out in 2019, there was an insistence that he is straining to lead Chelsea from a transitional period to a new era of success. Conte referred to last season\u2019s title as a miracle, pointing out that he inherited a side that had failed to qualify for Europe after finishing 10th and that his first job in a foreign country came at a club in the process of rebuilding after parting ways with several legendary players, and he has not shied away from making that clear to his bosses. \u201cI always like to tell the truth, first of all to my club,\u201d Conte said. \u201cSometimes it\u2019s better a good lie than a bad truth but I\u2019m a person who always prefers to tell a bad truth than a good lie. In this way I have the respect of the people that I tell the truth to. I think this is not a bad truth. I think this is the truth. \u201cWe are trying to build something important. It\u2019s important to have the patience and then to have the time to do this. I understand that it\u2019s not for all to have patience. But patience is a big quality. For example, I have not a lot of patience, honestly. But after last season, last season, I\u2019m improving a lot.\u201d Ask Conte a tactical question and he often clams up, preferring not to reveal any secrets, although he did admit that it was a blunder to use Gary Cahill on the right of his back three against Roma. There will not be a repeat of an experiment that ended with the captain being withdrawn early in the second half. Conte is desperate to see Chelsea regain their solidity. How they have toiled without N\u2019Golo Kant\u00e9, who is touch and go to face United after a month out with hamstring trouble. In general, though, Conte tends to become more animated when the discussion turns to hard work. He might not possess the kind of purist vision that marks out Pep Guardiola but no one can accuse Conte of a lack of effort. Winning, he explained, requires sacrifice. \u201cYou don\u2019t win because one day you wake up and decide: \u2018Oh, today I\u2019ll win,\u2019\u201d he said. \u201cFor a winner, you have to have a path. In this path there is sacrifice. There is work. Hard work. There is humility to put yourself every day in competition with yourself. If you\u2019re ready to have this type of path, you have the chance to win, but it\u2019s not sure you will win. If you think you can win because you like this verb, this word, to win. It\u2019s not simple.\u201d It is not uncommon in sport for winners to lose a little desire. Chelsea\u2019s recent title defences have not gone well \u2013 ask Mourinho. \u201cIt\u2019s not simple to repeat,\u201d Conte said. \u201cAbove all in this league. Now we are trying to build something important. In the last four, five years we lost a lot of important players: Drogba, Cech, Lampard, Terry, Ivanovic, Mikel. Matic is last season. I\u2019m talking about players that wrote history in this club. Now we are restarting.\u201d For all the calls for patience, however, Chelsea could do with some instant regeneration against United. Conte\u2019s champion credentials are not in doubt but he would not be the first manager in the Abramovich era to see control slip away before there is time to respond."
"14||Missing pay rises: the ever deepening economics mysteryAs mysteries go, it doesn\u2019t rank with Murder on the Orient Express or the identity of Gerald the mole in Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy but the economics profession is currently gripped by its own drama. This story won\u2019t make it to the silver screen with starring roles for Kenneth Branagh or Judi Dench, but a lot depends on how it ends. For central banks, in particular, the question of Who Killed the Phillips Curve? is a nail-biter. They badly want to know how it ends. Here\u2019s the plot. Back in the 1950s a brilliant London School of Economics professor called Bill Phillips looked at UK wage and unemployment data stretching back to the 1860s and found a clear relationship: as unemployment rates fell wage growth picked up; as the dole queues lengthened pay growth eased back. Phillips plotted a century\u2019s worth of data and came up with a nice smooth curve. Policymakers loved it because it meant a choice from a menu of options: they could have a bit less unemployment if they were prepared to tolerate a tad more inflation. Conversely, they could ease cost of living pressures by nudging the jobless total up a bit. The first attempt to kill off the Phillips curve came in the 1970s, and then there was no mystery about who fired the shot. Milton Friedman said that accepting higher inflation as a way of reducing unemployment was a pointless strategy because wage bargainers would build the assumption of a higher cost of living into their pay demands. Inflation would ratchet upwards without any fall in unemployment. The stagflation of the 70s \u2013 high unemployment and high inflation at the same time \u2013 seemed to prove Friedman right. But the Phillips curve was not killed off that easily. New models of the economy were developed incorporating the Friedman critique, which drew a distinction between the long-term and the short-term. In the long-term, it was accepted that Friedman was right: any attempt to reduce unemployment below its \u201cnatural\u201d rate would lead to ever-higher inflation. But in the short-term the Phllips curve relationship held, provided consumers and businesses were confident that inflation would be kept low. Central banks loved the idea of the short-term Phillips curve and it became central to their models. If unemployment was higher than its natural rate, central banks could stimulate demand without any risk of breaching their inflation targets. When all the slack in the labour market was used up, they would remove the stimulus. The 1990s and the early 2000s were the heyday for fine-tuning the economy using quarter-point increases or cuts in official interest rates. The financial crisis and global recession of 2007-09 brought this golden age to an abrupt end. Factories closed, trade dried up and unemployment rose. Central banks cut interest rates aggressively, aware that if they didn\u2019t do so they would risk under-shooting their inflation targets. Deflation was seen as the real threat. A second Great Depression was averted and unemployment started to fall. But here\u2019s where things started to get tricky because the central banks had to decide when and how quickly to remove the stimulus they had provided in late 2008 and early 2009 and their Phillips-curve models were not much help. As unemployment rates have come down, central banks have waited for wage growth to pick up. A decade on they are still waiting. The past week has provided two examples of the dilemma policymakers are facing. In the UK, the Bank of England raised interest rates because it thinks earnings growth is bound to pick up with unemployment at a 42-year low of 4.3%. In the US, the unemployment rate is even lower, at 4.1%, and the markets believe the Federal Reserve will need to raise interest rates four times next year to prevent inflation rising above its 2% target. But in neither the UK nor the US is there any hard evidence of rising wage pressure. Average earnings growth in Britain is stuck at just over 2% and the Bank\u2019s own agents \u2013 the eyes and ears of the monetary policy committee \u2013 said in their latest report that labour costs per employee were subdued. In the US, more than 250,000 new jobs were created last month but average hourly earnings were unchanged. Put simply, central banks are relying on their Phillips-curve models to set interest rates at a time when the Phillips curve relationship appears to have broken down. When Mark Carney arrived at the Bank of England in 2013 he thought wage pressure would only start to build when unemployment fell below 7%. In the same year, the American economist Robert Gordon said the Fed would not be able to reduce unemployment below 6.5% without inflation picking up. Gordon is one of the economists who finds it hard to contemplate a world without the Phillips curve. Without a correlation between unemployment and inflation, he said in his 2013 paper, the Fed would not be able to calculate the natural rate of unemployment or the amount of slack in the economy. \u201cIn such a world, the Fed would be operating like a captain of a giant ocean liner operating in a fog, with no instruments to warn of icebergs to the left or to the right.\u201d This looks like a pretty accurate summation of how central banks have been operating these last few years. It is clear that their estimates of the natural rate of unemployment are stabs in the dark. Five years ago when the actual level of unemployment was 8%, the Bank of England thought the natural rate was around 7%. Now that the actual rate is 4.3%, it thinks the natural rate is 4%. But who\u2019s to say unemployment can\u2019t be pushed to 3% or 2% before wage pressure builds? It seems entirely plausible that a combination of globalisation, weaker trade unions and a deep recession mean that economies can operate at much lower levels of unemployment without triggering inflation. Trust us, the Bank says. There is now very little slack left in the economy and once that is used up inflation will start to rise. But estimates of spare capacity are no more reliable than estimates of the natural rate of unemployment. It\u2019s not hard to see why central banks are so wedded to the Phillips curve. As the economist Gavyn Davies said recently: \u201cWithout the [Phillips curve], the whole complicated paraphernalia that underpins central bank policy suddenly looks very shaky. For this reason, the PC will not be abandoned lightly by policymakers.\u201d Rather like the supposed murder victim in an Agatha Christie book, the Phillips curve might simply be feigning death. At some point the old unemployment-wage inflation relationship may again show up. But for the time being central banks are winging it. They need to tread carefully."
"7||\u2018There\u2019s a lot more there\u2019: Mueller ups the stakes in the Trump-Russia inquiryFor a moment in court, the mask slipped. Paul Manafort glanced at his lawyer and smirked, like a TV mafia boss with reasons to be confident. It was the look of a man who, after decades of work as a lobbyist for murderous dictators in Africa and Asia, was not about to be rattled by the prospect of house arrest. But less than a mile away, another man displayed rather less equanimity. Donald Trump woke before dawn on Monday and, instead of heading to the Oval Office, lingered in the White House residence. \u201cTrump clicked on the television and spent the morning playing fuming media critic, legal analyst and crisis communications strategist, according to several people close to him,\u201d the Washington Post reported. Until that moment, the justice department investigation into his election campaign\u2019s alleged collusion with Russia had seemed somewhat theoretical, dismissable by Trump as a \u201choax\u201d and \u201cwitch-hunt\u201d. But here was the concrete of the courthouse, the accused escorted in by marshals, standing before a robed judge, swearing on oath and pleading for liberty. Suddenly Trump understood the five-month investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller \u2013 probing whether the American president has been compromised by a foreign power \u2013 had entered a new and dangerous phase. \u201cOverall this week what we learned is that Bob Mueller knows a lot more about what happened during the presidential campaign than anyone on the outside thought he did,\u201d said Matthew Miller, a partner at strategic advisory firm Vianovo and former director of public affairs at the justice department. \u201cWe have an incomplete picture and we don\u2019t know what the final picture might look like.\u201d Manafort, who served as Trump\u2019s campaign chairman for five months, and his business associate Rick Gates, who also played a role in the campaign, were indicted on 12 counts including conspiracy against the US, conspiracy to launder money, acting as an unregistered foreign agent, making false statements and failing to report foreign bank and financial accounts. There was a silver lining for the president: the indictment did not reference the Trump campaign or coordination with Russia. But it did allege a criminal conspiracy was continuing into February this year, after Trump had taken office, and that the pair funneled payments through foreign companies and bank accounts as part of their work for Ukraine\u2019s pro-Russia former president Viktor Yanukovych. Frank Figliuzzi, former assistant director for counterintelligence at the FBI, told MSNBC: \u201cIf you look at this through a counterintelligence lens, you see the fingerprints of the Russian government here \u2026 He [Manafort] got a primer on how the Russians can influence a campaign when he represented the Ukrainian candidate [Yanukovych] and he saw what Russia could do to influence a campaign. And he liked it.\u201d Appearing in a tense courtroom on Monday before a packed public gallery, Manafort and Gates pleaded not guilty and were released on multimillion-dollar bonds but confined to their homes. Lawyers for Manafort \u2013 also among the participants of a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower with a Kremlin-linked lawyer after Donald Trump Jr was promised \u201cdirt\u201d on rival Hillary Clinton \u2013 defended him in a court filing on Thursday as a \u201csuccessful, international political consultant\u201d who was necessarily involved in foreign financial transactions. US district judge Amy Berman Jackson has set a possible date of 7 May for the trial. Mueller, evidently, is carrying his investigation out in stages, as if taking on an organised crime family. He may delve into Trump\u2019s personal finances too. John Sipher, a national security analyst and former member of the CIA\u2019s national clandestine service, said: \u201cThe fact the Mueller investigation would be willing to bring charges on everything from money laundering to tax evasion against Manafort, who was Trump\u2019s campaign chairman, is a big deal and suggests to me there\u2019s a lot more there.\u201d Trump said on Twitter the alleged crimes were \u201cyears ago\u201d and insisted there was \u201cNO COLLUSION\u201d between his associates and Russia. He characteristically sought to shift attention to his Democratic opponent, tweeting: \u201cWhy aren\u2019t Crooked Hillary &amp; the Dems the focus?????\u201d The Manafort story broke just before 8am on Monday. In normal circumstances, charges against the former campaign chairman of a sitting president would be devastating enough. But then, around 10.30am, came a bolt from the blue. An unsealed indictment revealed that former Trump campaign adviser George Papadopoulos had pleaded guilty to lying to FBI agents about contacts with people who claimed to have ties to top Russian officials and who were offering \u201cdirt\u201d on Clinton. The special counsel\u2019s one-two punch was deliberate, Miller believes. \u201cHe did the two together to send a very clear message to everyone in the Trump orbit. \u2018If you cooperate, you\u2019ll get a very favourable deal\u2019 \u2013 I think he probably won\u2019t go to jail \u2013 \u2018If you lie and obstruct I\u2019m going to throw the book at you and you\u2019re looking at years in jail.\u201d Alarmingly for the White House, Papadopoulos is now cooperating with Mueller\u2019s investigators and, some speculated, may have worn a wire. The White House predictably sought to distance itself from him. Trump tweeted: \u201cFew people knew the young, low level volunteer named George, who has already proven to be a liar.\u201d But a photo posted on Trump\u2019s Instagram account shows Papadopoulos sitting at a table with the businessman as well as Jeff Sessions, now the attorney general, and other foreign policy advisers in March last year. According to the court documents, Papadopoulos told the meeting \u201cthat he had connections that could help arrange a meeting between then-candidate Trump and President Putin\u201d. A New York Times report on Tuesday quoted a participant as saying that Sessions \u201cshut George down\u201d, ruled there should be no meeting with Putin and ordered those present \u201cnot to speak about this again\u201d. CNN also said Carter Page, another former Trump campaign adviser, informed the House intelligence committee on Thursday that he had told Sessions of an upcoming July 2016 trip to Russia. Yet in his testimony to the Senate judiciary committee in June, the attorney general denied knowing anything about contacts between the campaign and Russians. Now Senate Democrats are calling for him to testify again. Senator Al Franken wrote in a letter to Sessions: \u201cThis is another example in an alarming pattern in which you, the nation\u2019s top law enforcement officer, apparently failed to tell the truth, under oath, about the Trump team\u2019s contacts with agents of Russia, a hostile foreign power that interfered in the 2016 election.\u201d Trump himself \u2013 who last week claimed to have \u201cone of the great memories of all time\u201d \u2013 was vague on the details of the Papadopoulos meeting. As he set off for a 13-day tour of Asia on Friday, he told reporters: \u201cI don\u2019t remember much about that meeting. It was a very unimportant meeting. It took place a long time ago \u2026 All I can tell you is this: There was no collusion. There was no nothing. It\u2019s a disgrace, frankly, that they continue.\u201d As is his wont, Trump argued that the justice department should look into Clinton and her campaign\u2019s conduct with the Democratic National Committee during the presidential primary race. \u2018Catastrophically bad judgment\u2019 As the first anniversary of Trump\u2019s shock win over Clinton approaches, it is clear the Russia affair will hover over most if not all his presidency. This week, appearing before three congressional committees, executives from Facebook, Twitter and Google admitted that their platforms were abused by Russia to inflame existing divisions over issues such as immigration and gun control. House investigators released a batch of Facebook and Twitter ads \u2013 a sample of more than 3,000 turned over to the committee \u2013 that demonstrated America\u2019s all-conquering social media had been weaponised against it. One promoted an event to \u201cSupport Hillary. Save American Muslims!\u201d with a picture of a woman in a hijab beside Clinton. Another for a group called \u201cStop AI\u201d urged viewers to \u201clike and share if you want burqa banned in America,\u201d implying that the all-enveloping garment could be hiding a terrorist. Democrats in particular sought to clip the wings of the tech companies. Senator Franken demanded sardonically: \u201cHow did Facebook, which prides itself on being able to process billions of data points and instantly transform them into personal connections for its users, somehow not make the connection that electoral ads paid for in rubles were coming from Russia?\u201d Senator Dianne Feinstein told the tech companies: \u201cI don\u2019t think you get it.\u201d However, there was no conclusive proof that Moscow had conspired on behalf of Trump alone. Facebook\u2019s general counsel, Colin Stretch, testified that Russian activity had continued after the election \u201cfomenting discord about the validity\u201d of Trump\u2019s victory. Some commentators also suggested that the week\u2019s developments in the Mueller investigation were not as brutal for Trump as they first appeared. Marc Thiessen, a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute thinktank and former chief speechwriter for George W Bush, argued that the Papadopoulos case was an example of incompetence rather than malevolence. \u201cThere\u2019s still no more public evidence of criminal collusion with Russia than there was before charges were brought,\u201d Thiessen wrote in the Washington Post. \u201cBut there is plenty of evidence that the Trump campaign had catastrophically bad judgment in choosing its most senior and junior advisers \u2013 and that Russia\u2019s spy network sought to exploit that weakness.\u201d What seems certain, however, is that these are merely the first pieces in a sprawling jigsaw puzzle. Until Monday, no one outside the special counsel\u2019s office even knew that Papadopoulos was a piece in that puzzle. Former national security adviser Michael Flynn is expected to come under Mueller\u2019s scrutiny over his associations with Moscow. Miller said: \u201cThe biggest question in American politics is whether Flynn is cooperating with Bob Mueller or not. My guess is that he\u2019s either cooperating or trying to get a pardon from Trump \u2013 which is a very dangerous thing.\u201d Is the Russia investigation, probably the most important ever conducted by the justice department, closer to bringing down the Trump presidency than it was a week ago? Sipher noted that his demise has been widely predicted before yet somehow he manages to survive \u2013 until the day he doesn\u2019t. \u201cIt\u2019s like hitting a boulder with a hammer 1,000 times and it doesn\u2019t break,\u201d he said. \u201cThen you hit it the 1,001st time and it smashes to pieces. It\u2019s hard to predict.\u201d"
"15||David Bowie: A Life by Dylan Jones review \u2013 skilful and revelatoryThere have been many books about David Bowie, both before and after his death, but GQ editor Dylan Jones\u2019s is among the best, as well as the most revelatory. Jones sensibly chooses to use the verbatim testimonies of Bowie\u2019s friends, loved ones, colleagues and admirers (as well as a few sceptics) and skilfully teases out hitherto unknown facts and details. It is unlikely, for instance, that any other biography has taken such care to explore the formative role of Beckenham in Bowie\u2019s early career. For any admirer of the great man, there is a smorgasbord of new information, mixed with well-judged analysis. But even for agnostics, there is no denying Jones\u2019s flair and dedication in giving his hero the most comprehensive of eulogies. The only real criticism to be levelled at this admirable book is the absence of any illustrations, a pity with such a visually resplendent subject. \u2022 David Bowie: A Life by Dylan Jones is published by Preface (\u00a320). To order a copy for \u00a317 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"12||I didn't understand how widespread rape was. Then the penny droppedThis is a very difficult column for me to write because it\u2019s about my mother. A week or two after the then IMF director Dominique Strauss-Kahn was arrested for sexually assaulting a chambermaid in a posh New York hotel in 2011, there was another case when an Egyptian businessman was briefly arrested for a similar assault at another such New York hotel. This first struck me as puzzling. It could hardly be a copycat crime; considering the drama surrounding the arrest and travails of DSK, it was inconceivable that anyone would see this and say: \u201cOh good idea, I\u2019ll attack a chambermaid as well.\u201d Then it dawned on me. The only logical explanation was that businessmen, politicians, officials and financiers rape, or attempt to rape, hotel workers all the time. It\u2019s just that normally, those assaulted know there\u2019s nothing they can do about it. In DSK\u2019s case, someone \u2013 for whatever complex political reasons \u2013 must have refused to make the usual phone call. There was a scandal. As a result, when the next assault took place, the survivor must have said to herself, \u201cOh, so does this mean we actually are allowed to call the cops now if a customer tries to rape us?\u201d and acted accordingly. And sure enough this is precisely what turned out to have happened. (In the end, both women were silenced, and neither man convicted of any crime.) What I really want to draw attention to here is my initial reaction of disbelief: \u201cSure things are bad; but it can\u2019t be that bad.\u201d Even a lefty academic versed in feminist theory instinctively rebelled against the idea that rich and powerful men regularly rape or attempt to rape the women cleaning their rooms, that this happens all the time, that everyone in the hotel industry knows it happens (since they must know), and that those rich and powerful men in turn know they could get away with it because if any woman they attacked did protest too strenuously, everyone would move in lockstep to do whatever was required to make the problem go away. It\u2019s of course this very disbelief that allows such things to happen. We are loth to accept people we might know might practice pure, naked aggression. This is how bullies get away with what they do. I\u2019ve written about this. Bullying is not just a relation between bully and victim. It\u2019s really a three-way relation, between bully, victim and everyone who refuses to do anything about the aggression; all those people who say \u201cboys will be boys\u201d or pretend there\u2019s some equivalence between aggressor and aggressed. Who see a conflict and say \u201cit doesn\u2019t matter who started it\u201d even in cases where, in reality, nothing could possibly matter more. It makes no difference if there\u2019s a real physical audience or if the audience just exists inside the victim\u2019s head. You know what will happen if you fight back. You know what people will say about you. You internalize it. Before long, even if nothing is said, you can\u2019t help wonder if these things they would say are actually true. Sexual predation is a particular variety of bullying but like all forms of bullying it operates above all in precisely this way by destroying the victim\u2019s sense of self. I had another, similar, horrified moment of realization in reading Dame Emma Thompson\u2019s remarks about Harvey Weinstein. Not because of her observation that his predations were, as she said, \u201cthe tip of the iceberg\u201d \u2013 this is surely true, but not entirely unknown; what startled me was one word. She described Weinstein\u2019s behavior as typical of \u201ca system of harassment and belittling and bullying and interference\u201d that women had faced from time immemorial. The word that struck me was \u201cbelittling\u201d. This is where the story becomes personal. Let me tell you about my mother. Mom was a prodigy. Arriving in America at age 10, speaking not a word of English, she skipped so many grades she was in college by 16. Then she dropped out of college to help the family (it was the Depression) by getting a factory job sewing brassieres. The union had the crazy idea at that time to put on a musical comedy performed entirely by garment workers. The play (Pins and Needles) surprised everyone by becoming a smash hit on Broadway, with mom (then Ruth Rubinstein) as female lead. She was hailed as a comic genius, which I can attest she definitely was, was featured in Life, met FDR and Gypsy Rose Lee, and for three years hobnobbed with celebrities and was gossiped about in gossip columns. Then she went back to working in the factory again. Eventually she met my father, then a sailor; he found work in offset lithography, she dedicated herself to raising me and my brother, along with a variety of local activist projects and occasional part-time jobs. As a child it never occurred to me to ask why she never continued in the theatre, even though she followed it avidly, or went back to college, even though she filled the house with books, or pursued her own career. When I later asked she\u2019d just say, \u201cI lacked self-confidence.\u201d But once I remember the phrase \u201ccasting couch\u201d came up and I asked her if such things had existed in her day. She threw her eyes up and said, \u201cWell, why do you think I never pursued a career in show business? Some of us were willing to sleep with producers. I wasn\u2019t.\u201d This is why I\u2019d like to get my thumbs on the throat of Harvey Weinstein. It\u2019s not just that creeps like him drove my mother off the stage. It\u2019s that in the process, they broke something. I don\u2019t know what actually happened, or if any one specific thing even did happen; but the result was to leave her convinced she was unworthy; intellectually superficial; not genuinely talented; a lightweight; a fraud. Because just as everyone associated with hotels falls into lockstep to tell chambermaids they are unworthy of protection from rapists, so did everything in my mother\u2019s environment conspire to tell her she had no grounds for complaint if someone told her was unworthy to continue to perform on stage, whatever her attainments, without also performing in private as a part-time sex worker. As a result, her sense of self collapsed. All of us are heirs to a thousand forms of violence. Many shape our lives in ways we\u2019ll never know. My mother was an enormous human stuck in a tiny box. Late in her life she was still hilariously funny; but she also collected tea towels with inscriptions like \u201cdon\u2019t expect miracles\u201d. She raised me to assume I was destined for greatness (like her, I was considered something of a prodigy), then, would fall into inexplicable depression for days that would invariably end with her lashing out at me as a terrible, selfish, uncaring person for not properly cleaning my room. Only now do I understand she was really lashing out at even having to care about my room. Later she lived in part vicariously through me but also \u2013 I have to assume \u2013 was racked by guilt for any indignation she could not help but feel that this was the only way she could live the kind of life she should have had. In endless ways, the violence of powerful men plays havoc with our souls. It makes us complicit in acts of mutual destruction. It\u2019s too late now for my mother. She died 10 years ago, taking the details of what happened with her. But if we can do anything for her now, can\u2019t we at least break out of lockstep? Let\u2019s stop pretending these things can\u2019t really be happening \u2013 and then, as soon as we learn it did happen, tell the person it happened to, \u201cWell, what else did you expect?\u201d"
"24||We're going on a bear hunt \u2026 in Hokkaido, JapanLooking back, The Revenant was an ill-advised choice of in-flight entertainment. The image of Leo having his guts ripped out by a bear was still on my mind at 3am on our first night camping in the wilds of Hokkaido, when I finally squeezed out of my camper van bunk and tiptoed outside to the loo, twitching like a meerkat at every rustle from the undergrowth. The noise turned out to be an especially dapper fox. Not everyone is that lucky. Japan\u2019s bears are killers, claiming a handful of lives most years. Newspaper reports of such incidents were something else I probably ought not to have occupied myself with, before leaving with my wife and two sons for a six-day camping trip to Japan\u2019s northernmost main island. Better known as a winter destination, Hokkaido\u2019s staggering Lost World scenery is a beautiful place to explore in the spring, summer and autumn too. It is also home to around 3,000 brown bears, weighing up to 350kg each and twice the height of a man. \u201cDon\u2019t worry, we\u2019ve never had a brown bear attack here; it\u2019s the black bears on the mainland [Honshu] that cause the problems,\u201d Shinji Sato, our guide, tried to reassure us. (He\u2019s an astro-physicist turned \u201cStuff Naturalist\u201d, according to his business card.) \u201cThe black bears on Honshu tend to panic and attack humans, but Hokkaido brown bears are more shy.\u201d We had picked up our Toyota campervan from the island\u2019s capital, Sapporo, three days earlier, and headed east on a circular route. After two long days of driving, our third was spent trekking \u2013 in search of a waterfall \u2013 through the forests of the Shiretoko peninsula, a wilderness national park on the island\u2019s easternmost point, within sight of (disputed) Russian territory. Shiretoko is home to rare eagles, and its waters to various whale species; it also has the highest density of bears on the island. Our van was far from luxurious, and if you\u2019re used to camping in Europe, be warned: Japanese campsites have virtually no facilities (you traipse to a nearby onsen, or hot spring, hotel to wash), and the rules for rubbish disposal make Brexit negotiations seem straightforward. They are more like overnight stops than holiday destinations in their own right: locals bring all they need with them and set up neat tents for cooking and sleeping, and mosquito net gazebos for dining. Driving in Japan, however, is a doddle. The Japanese drive on the left and road signs are subtitled in English. Their petrol stations embody the philosophy of omotenashi, or good service, making you feel like an F1 driver making a pit stop. The Japanese are also polite motorists and stay well within speed limits. That suited me fine: all the more time to take in the staggering views of forested mountain ranges, epic road tunnels, coastal cliff roads and volcanoes steaming silently in the distance. As we passed through the Furano valley, the Jurassic Park vibe transformed into absurdly picturesque farmland, where smallholders grow those famous \u00a340 melons, plus tomatoes, potatoes, sweetcorn and lavender. (Our van\u2019s limited galley meant that we mostly made do with food from convenience stores: decent takeaway sushi or instant ramen, with melon buns for dessert.) Further west, at Noboribetsu\u2019s \u201cHell Valley\u201d, the landscape turned Martian, with steaming red sands and boiling brooks. But back to the bears. Emboldened by Shinji\u2019s reassurances, I asked if he might take us to see some. A couple of hours later, after one of the best meals of my life \u2013 freshly cooked king crab at Rausu Maruuo Hamada Shoten, a restaurant, not much more than a fisherman\u2019s hut really, by the beach (365-1 Rebuncho, Rauso-cho, Menashi-gun) \u2013 we were crashing over white waves to the uninhabited tip of the peninsula in a sea urchin boat, basically a fibreglass tub with an outboard motor. At first, it seemed as if we were out of luck. And then, suddenly, my younger son sprang up and pointed excitedly. There on the shore was a brown bear! We drew closer. According to Shinji it was about three years old. This muscular furball was turning over stones in search of insects. We saw another of a similar age as we hastened back to port. It was one of the Great Days, the day we saw wild bears. They were still the main topic of conversation three days later in Niseko when, having completed our circumnavigation of Hokkaido, we were enjoying the comforts (bath!) of the renowned Vale Niseko ski hotel , which has mesmerising views of the 1,900-metre Mount Yotei. Here, we rented bikes from Niseko Nature School and headed out to the volcano. At one point a large snake crossed the road in the middle of our group. We stopped, and watched it slither into the lush undergrowth \u2013 not as exciting as a bear, but a moment to remember nonetheless. \u2022 Campervan rental costs from \u00a3140 a day for a five-berth with japanrv-rental.com. The guide, car hire and hotel accommodation were supplied by Inside Japan (0117 370 9751, insidejapantours.com), which offers several trips to Hokkaido. For more information, visit the Japan National Tourism Organization (seejapan.co.uk) The Meaning of Rice by Michael Booth, published by Jonathan Cape, is out now (\u00a314.99)"
"15||Rome: A History in Seven Sackings by Matthew Kneale review \u2013 stirring portrait of a city at war\u201cBoth peace and war have played their part in making Rome the extraordinary place it is today,\u201d writes Matthew Kneale. However, his stirring history of the Eternal City is heavy on the hostilities. Rome has been occupied, ravaged and reshaped by, among others, the Gauls, Goths, Normans and Nazis, plus some domestic \u201csacking\u201d by Mussolini\u2019s mob. Fractured stories come naturally to Kneale: his novel English Passengers, winner of the Whitbread book of the year in 2000, juggled 20 narrators. Here, he carefully pieces together an episodic portrait of a population as flexible in conflict as they are in business and matrimony. The past is lingering in the piazzas and forums: medieval towers house gift shops; football fans march past a towering marble obelisk still dedicated to Il Duce. As an American nun observed while trapped in the city during the second world war, Romans can adapt to events with \u201cOlympian serenity\u201d. \u2022 Rome: A History in Seven Sackings by Matthew Kneale is published by Atlantic (\u00a320). To order a copy for \u00a317 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"12||When life imitates the art of sitcomPicture the scene: a crisp February day in 2012 in Trent Park, Enfield. Actually, I don\u2019t know it was crisp \u2013 I just know it was February, so crisp is a possibility. I\u2019m ruling out balmy, humid and close. It could have been cloudy, mild for the time of year, or windy; there might have been driving rain or even snow. Or uneven snow. Freezing fog is also an option, but it would get in the way of your picturing the scene so I\u2019m ruling it out. 2012 anyway \u2013 you\u2019re familiar with that. If you\u2019re not, you\u2019re a very advanced reader for your age. So, early/mid-coalition, Chris Huhne\u2019s just resigned, the Olympics are coming up, Jimmy Savile is dead but not yet discredited, and there are 2.5 million people out of work. Look, I\u2019m paying for this internet connection so I\u2019m going to use it. Walking across the park are two women, one in her mid-50s and one about 70. The younger has a cockapoo and the older an alsatian on a lead. Presently they arrive at the park cafe and alsatian lady, in a fluid movement, puts the dog\u2019s lead in her friend\u2019s hand and sweeps into the cafe to buy them both drinks. This is where it gets hilarious. The alsatian, named Lily, yanks excitedly on the lead, probably trying to follow her owner, and drags the younger lady with her. Through the cafe tables she gallops, to the consternation of snacking locals, towing her owner\u2019s friend along the ground like a husky\u2019s sled. Across the grass, between the trees, twice round the children\u2019s roundabout, underneath the trailer of an articulated lorry making a large delivery of Bonios, right through the middle of a marching band playing How Much Is That Doggie in the Window?, and finally into a large pond, causing havoc and honking from a family of geese. I\u2019ve used a bit of artistic licence there. In reality, the dog just pulled the woman over. It\u2019s impossible to know exactly how funny it looked. In fact, there is no objective measure of that sort of thing. We don\u2019t know who saw it, from what distance or angle, or in what mood. But it\u2019s certainly something that has the potential to amuse. If it happens in circumstances that you know to be consequence-free \u2013 in fiction, say \u2013 it could get a laugh. These particular 2012 circumstances were not consequence-free. The poor woman who got yanked, Kay Benstead, broke an arm and a hip and was off work for seven months. And the drink-buying alsatian owner, Annie Finnie, has been ordered to pay \u00a3115,000 in damages plus up to \u00a3100,000 of court costs. Idiomatically, the whole thing was no walk in the park. \u201cThe weight and force of the dog was too great and she fell over,\u201d Judge Peter Wulwick pointed out at the trial. \u201cMrs Finnie\u2026 didn\u2019t anticipate that, in handing over the dog in the way she did, physical injury might well result. In my view, she should have done so.\u201d This ruling is a stark reminder of a pratfall\u2019s human cost. There\u2019s something unavoidably funny about someone being pulled over by a dog, but it\u2019s also a poignant story of injury and ruined friendship. And massive expense. So, when we next chuckle thoughtlessly over hilarious sitcom mishaps, let\u2019s bear in mind what the real-life legal consequences would have been. Granger v Dibley parish council \u201cAt over five feet, the depth of the puddle into which the Reverend Granger fell quite simply beggars belief and to have allowed such an implausibly deep and flooded chasm to develop in a public footpath is perhaps the most serious case of council negligence it has ever been my misfortune to rule upon.\u201d Torquay town council v Fawlty \u201cWhile I accept Mr Fawlty\u2019s contention that \u2018every freeborn Englishman has the right to thrash his own car\u2019 and that the time has not yet come when \u2018we\u2019ll be getting psychiatrists for the bloody things and asking them if they find the garage lonely\u2019, I find the exercise of this right with a council-planted sapling to be unlawful and that the abrasions to his hands, and scratches to his vehicle, thereby engendered fall outside the local authority\u2019s liability.\u201d Spencer v Roller-rinks International Ltd \u201cMr Spencer has been generous in admitting he is a roller-skating novice but, as the rink\u2019s advertising literature specifically sought the custom of such beginners, I believe it negligent of the management not to have fitted doors sturdy enough to resist the momentum of an adult skater thrown towards them by the centrifugal force of the flicking tail of a conga line, and therefore that, in the matter of Mr Spencer\u2019s subsequent harrowing and hazardous journey through the local neighbourhood, the rink is at fault.\u201d Medford v Eversun Deckchairs \u201cNotwithstanding the defendant\u2019s assertion that Mr Terence Medford is of a heavier build than average, I find his view that a reputably manufactured deckchair should still be able to hold his weight for more than two seconds to be fair, and therefore order that he should be compensated both for the injury to his coccyx \u2013 settle down, please \u2013 and loss of earnings caused by his employer making inaccurate inferences about his lifestyle and sexuality from the manner in which he was limping at a company function later on the day of the accident.\u201d Trotter v Neisenkul Holdings \u201cI find that Mr Trotter had a reasonable expectation that the integrity of the bar surface behind him would not have been disrupted during his conversation, and so the defendants\u2019 contention that he should have sought visual confirmation that a leaning site was still available, is not, in my view, sound, and they are consequently liable for Mr Trotter\u2019s loss of earnings and costs incurred as a result of reputational damage caused by the incident. I set damages at \u00a31m.\u201d * * * Two weeks ago, while bemoaning the undermining of freedom of speech in some universities, I wrote disparagingly about the \u201ctrigger warnings\u201d widely reported to have been added to Cambridge University lecture timetables alerting students to, among other things, the plot of Titus Andronicus. Having read an article in the Guardian by Ian Burrows, who delivered one of the lectures in question and explained that it was primarily about the portrayal of sexual assault in drama, I\u2019ve revised my view. I do think there\u2019s a worrying trend towards censorship in some academic quarters, but it looks like the situation at Cambridge was misreported in the press and so was a bad example for me to use, for which I\u2019m sorry."
"0||Said & Done: \u2018He\u2019s a little bit of a Peter Pan. A kind, sweet, honourable man\u2019Quote of the week Gianni Infantino on this month\u2019s Fifa trials in the US: \u201cThese are cases of the past. These things couldn\u2019t happen again.\u201d Infantino, who sacked the ethics team investigating him in May, told media: \u201cWe used to be a toxic brand \u2026 Now we\u2019re more transparent.\u201d Meanwhile: best timing 27 Oct: Infantino praises India\u2019s FA head Praful Patel for introducing Fifa \u201cvalues\u201d to Indian football: \u201cI have a feeling that India is now a football country.\u201d 31 Oct: Patel barred from office by Delhi\u2019s high court over alleged electoral irregularities. He denies wrongdoing. Most misunderstood Ex-Cayman Islands FA general secretary Costas Takkas \u2013 jailed for 15 months for laundering Fifa bribes, despite his lawyer defending him as \u201ca little bit of a Peter Pan. A kind, sweet, gentle, honourable man.\u201d Takkas told court: \u201cIt\u2019s not in my nature to cause harm. I love the game of football.\u201d \u2022 Among Takkas\u2019s moves: trying to disguise a bribe payment to former Concacaf head Jeffrey Webb by buying him a swimming pool \u201cas a wedding present\u201d. Webb \u2013 who hosted a pool-side Harlem Renaissance-themed blackjack party at the mansion soon after pleading guilty in 2016 \u2013 is due for sentencing next year. Other news: advice of the week Lazio communications head Arturo Diaconale \u2013 still upset by press exaggerating fans\u2019 antisemitism \u201cin order to hurt the club\u201d: \u201cThey are using the Holocaust for low ends, and this cannot be acceptable. This ought to be the biggest problem for the Jewish community.\u201d \u2022 Diaconale\u2019s key message last week \u2013 a call for respect for the victims: \u201cThere are three parties hurt by this episode: the Lazio president, who was presented in the worst light by a bitter media, the club that lost money because it is floated on the stock exchange, and the fans who, due to this witch hunt, are depicted as being racist.\u201d \u2022 Also reflecting on last month\u2019s events: Lazio president Claudio Lotito, telling live TV about his bridge-building visit to a Jewish \u201cmosque\u201d; and Torino manager and ex-Lazio player Sinisa Mihajlovic: \u201cWho is Anne Frank? I don\u2019t know who she is. I\u2019m a bit ignorant on that.\u201d Campaign of the week Spain: La Liga head Javier Tebas, renewing his call on Uefa to sanction PSG for \u201cstate-backed financial cheating\u201d. Tebas \u2013 who called last year\u2019s EU action against La Liga clubs receiving illegal state aid \u201cincredible nonsense\u201d \u2013 says PSG are \u201clike cyclists who dope \u2026 If we let cheats compete, it hurts the rest.\u201d Biggest turn-up 2014: Massimo Cellino passes a fit and proper test to buy Leeds, 12 months after an Italian arrest warrant called him a man of \u201cmarked criminal tendencies, capable of using every kind of deception to achieve his ends\u201d. 2017: Cellino fined \u00a3100,000 for \u201cdeceiving the FA\u201d with a \u201csham scouting agreement to cover up irregular payments\u201d \u2013 then \u201clying in his oral and written evidence\u201d. Coolest head 23 October: Sunderland chief executive Martin Bain, urging fans to lay off Simon Grayson: \u201cI look at my calendar and I see it\u2019s only October. We\u2019re in October, there\u2019s a long way to go.\u201d 31 October: Sacks him. \u2022 Giving Bain a lift last week amid mounting criticism from fans: the Football Business Awards night in London: Also making moves Germany, 18 Oct: Werder Bremen chairman Marco Bode: \u201cYes, we\u2019re in a difficult situation, there\u2019s no denying that \u2013 but there\u2019s total conviction here that Alex Nouri will get us out of it. The board is unanimous. We trust him.\u201d 30 Oct: They sack him. Brazil, 20 Oct: Santos president Modesto Roma J\u00fanior attacks \u201cmade up\u201d reports about his plan to sack coach Levir Culpi. \u201cThese are reports about a situation that simply doesn\u2019t exist. We\u2019re united at this club. You could say that here in this bacon omelette of ours, everyone is pork, and nobody is chicken. In a bacon omelette, the chicken may be in there somewhere, but the pork is essential. At Santos, everyone is essential.\u201d His broader view: \u201cPeople should know I only ever do what is best for the club. Not what is best for me, or what I can do to please public opinion. I only do what\u2019s best for the club.\u201d 29 Oct: Sacks him. Setback of the week UAE: Al-Wasl forward Fabio Lima, upset after being fined and banned for \u201cdoing a penguin impression\u201d. FA officials ruled the dance was an \u201coffensive\u201d reference to rivals Al-Nasr\u2019s unwanted \u201cPenguins\u201d nickname - derived from the plastic penguins at nearby Al-Nasr Leisureland. Lima told local media: \u201cI don\u2019t want any trouble, I didn\u2019t mean to offend. I love the UAE. Everything here is beautiful.\u201d Plus: most focused Mexico: Club Am\u00e9rica coach Miguel \u201cThe Louse\u201d Herrera, facing sanctions for \u201ca finger gesture\u201d at Monterrey fans who mocked him: \u201cWhy do the FA need to \u2018investigate\u2019? There\u2019s not much to investigate. I did it.\u201d Herrera \u2013 also starring this month in Mexican TV soap opera I Plead Guilty \u2013 denied he was too easily distracted. \u201cI\u2019m a professional. You should never lose your focus.\u201d"
"25||Your pictures: share your photos on the theme of 'success'The next theme for our weekly photography assignment in the Observer New Review is \u2018success.\u2019 Share your photos of what success means to you \u2013 and tell us about your image in the description box. The closing date is Thursday 9 November at 10am. We\u2019ll publish our favourites in The New Review on Sunday 12 November and in a gallery on the Guardian site. You can share your \u2018success\u2019 pictures by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. GuardianWitness is the home of readers\u2019 content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others."
"0||West Ham\u2019s naivety and lack of application leave Slaven Bilic on brinkIt was four, it should have been six, it could have been 10. West Ham United have hardly prospered since moving to the London Stadium but, like the thrashing by Arsenal last season or the Friday night thumping by Brighton last month, this was a defeat that will linger like a fish under the floorboards. It truly stank. Slaven Bilic will face questions about his future as manager after this result and rightly so. He has faced such questions before in his two\u2011and\u2011a\u2011half\u2011year tenure and survived but the naivety, the disorganisation and, by the end, a sheer lack of application suggests that something different needs to be done if this club are to achieve anything near to what they should be capable of on paper. Before the game Bilic was confident. He knew it was a tough assignment to face Liverpool but defend stoutly and they would have a chance, he said. J\u00fcrgen Klopp\u2019s team committed so many men to attack there would always be opportunities. Manage the transition, occupy the right positions and they could exploit the vulnerability. This might have been an insight drawn from Bilic\u2019s last chastening result against the Reds: a 4-0 reverse in May when Liverpool dominated the ball and were 3-0 up by the hour mark. If that were the conclusion, however, it was at the very least incomplete. Liverpool were two up in half an hour this time and their opening goal came from a counterattack. What\u2019s more, a counterattack from a West Ham corner. A corner, for those new to the game, is a moment in a match where play stops and both teams assume predetermined positions. The arrangement West Ham opted for, on their first corner of the game, was one that left only Aaron Cresswell preventing two of the fastest players in the league from a clear run on his goal. Suffice to say once Liverpool cleared the ball to Sadio Man\u00e9 on the edge of the penalty area, a goal was pretty much guaranteed and, roughly six seconds later, Mo Salah calmly delivered with a cool finish under the England goalkeeper Joe Hart. That goal put paid to any gameplan of containment but within another few seconds any other result appeared out of reach. On first inspection Liverpool\u2019s second goal had an air of good fortune about it: a corner bounced through the box, came off Mark Noble and was then tucked in by Jo\u00ebl Matip. But the ball hit Noble because he lost his man, Man\u00e9, whose run distracted the defence enough for the ball to get past the first post. Noble, who had half-followed in, was therefore facing his own goal when it clanged off him. Hart made a save but rather than trying to turn the ball round the post he pushed it forward, straight to the waiting Matip. These were small details but they mattered. Having opted for a back five of late, Bilic ditched his system at half-time in order to accommodate the Hammers\u2019 lumbering totem Andy Carroll. In a way, the change conjured a goal as Andr\u00e9 Ayew, a striker in the first half, delivered a swirling cross from the right wing that Manuel Lanzini managed to take on his chest and loop excellently over Simon Mignolet. But barely was the ball back on the centre spot than Liverpool were running right through a team now light in the middle of the park to score their third. Yes, Liverpool are a team filled with attacking talent, coached by a manager who puts the emphasis on enabling them. But West Ham were hardly a team of callow youths. The average age of the starting XI was 27 and nine of them were internationals. The club spent \u00a340m in the summer transfer window and \u00a375m in the year before that. There are really no excuses for a team that well qualified to be as badly organised and as ineffective as they were in front of more than 56,000 supporters. The irony is that, in a league that is richer than any in history, they are hardly alone."
"22||Sam Smith: The Thrill of It All review \u2013 moping by numbersYou assume that the title of Sam Smith\u2019s long-awaited second album \u2013 The Thrill of It All \u2013 is a slightly weary one, weighing up the emotional cost of partying. Smith said as much on the BBC the other night. Actual thrills are scarce on these 10 tracks, which fulfil the brief of following up a hit album with a bankable sequel. These are songs dealing with heartbreak, coming out and the parlous state of the world in time-honoured, mainstream fashion: by making the sounds so palatable that any real sense of suffering is lost. The blame falls unequally. Smith\u2019s bruise of a voice is not particularly at fault here \u2013 he quavers like a champ, swapping falsetto for tenor and back again. This is why we pay Smith, and even with his new physique he delivers. The first track written for this album, Him, is all minor-key reverberation. It plays on the word \u201chim\u201d \u2013 a hymn (of sorts) that addresses God, but reveals a coming-out drama; Smith\u2019s vocal runs the gamut from vulnerable to righteous. But this music is ever so easy on the ear. Gospel choirs are called into service to add gravitas; elsewhere, the Dap King horns are on speed dial. One Last Song summons up the ghost of Smith\u2019s unrequited love \u2013 the subject of In the Lonely Hour \u2013 for a brief encore. But Smith does it by harking back to the over-tidy melodic resolutions of classic Motown, and no inkling that we have more colour palettes available now than just warm beige. Did Kanye release 808s and Heartbreak for nothing? You can count this album\u2019s quirks on two fingers. There\u2019s a slightly sinister pitch-shift to the backing vocals on Say It First, a pleasant tune about who should take the three-word plunge and say \u201cI love you\u201d first. Pray, Smith\u2019s reaction to a trip to Iraq, pairs him with 90s sonic mischief-maker Timbaland. It finds Smith struggling with agnosticism but resorting to more gospel choirs in the face of the world\u2019s suffering, while the producer tries to smuggle in some muted electronic squiggles under a predictable sequence of piano chords. There is little drama here, just plenty of shorthand (sad pianos), a total absence of risk and, perhaps worst of all, no evidence of the deranged hedonism that catapulted Smith into a funk. He could have asked Disclosure \u2013 the authors of his breakthrough feature Latch \u2013 or even Naughty Boy (credited here) to capture the reckless abandon of being a newly single twentysomething again with a sideboard full of Grammys and nightclubs at his feet. Say It First does have a discreet aortal lub-dub of a beat, and Baby, You Make Me Crazy hints at carnage (\u201cI would do anything to get you off my mind\u201d), but the song\u2019s retro filter mutes any actual derangement. Ultimately, Adele \u2013 pop\u2019s risk-avoider in chief \u2013 sold umpteen more copies of 25 than West did of 808s and Heartbreak. Why would any pop star in their right mind ever take a sonic risk, when the rewards for moping by numbers are so vast? For all his protestations to the contrary on Baby, You Make Me Crazy, Smith is very sane."
"15||Richard Flanagan: \u2018Fiction is not a lie, but a truth, a necessary truth\u2019Richard Flanagan won the Man Booker prize in 2014 for The Narrow Road to the Deep North. In First Person, would-be novelist Kif finds himself embarking on the ghostwriting job from hell. This is a very different novel to The Narrow Road. Was that always the plan? Plan? I had no plan. First Person is the book I began before the Booker and which I finished after, while at the same time, trying to surf the mudslide that the Booker brings on without falling off and being buried alive. Can you tell us about the back story to First Person? In 1991, while working as a builder\u2019s labourer and trying to write my first novel, I was offered $10,000 by Australia\u2019s greatest conman and corporate criminal, John Friedrich, to ghostwrite his memoirs in six weeks. He had embezzled a billion dollars in today\u2019s terms, set up a sort of a secret army and the whole thing had gone belly up. His bodyguard was a mate, which was how I got the gig. We worked on the book for three weeks and then he shot himself dead. I was left to ghostwrite a ghost. Although the novel is based on your experience with Friedrich, your ghostwriter, Kif, finds truth is arrived at by not cleaving too faithfully to the facts. Maybe that is as it should be: after all, fiction is not a lie, but a truth, a fundamental and necessary truth, that we need as much as we need food or sex. Without fiction, we poison ourselves on the lies of the first person. And perhaps that was the fear I had felt with Friedrich all those years ago \u2013 the terror of becoming the first person trapped in someone else\u2019s lies. For if story as lies leads us to a dark place, story as fiction offers the possibility of transcendence and liberation, the recognition of the many things each of us are. Kif discovers the only way to become a writer is by writing. Would that be your advice? I have no advice. People write books in spite of themselves. Which may be why I never understood creative writing degrees. Do you become as possessed by your characters as Kif is by his subject? No. But Kif is a mediocre artist who believes in the grand old lies: experience, empathy and the necessity of identifying with your subject, the first person \u2013 those things people say about their writing when they don\u2019t know what to say and are not sure what to write. It leads Kif to a bad pass. As a Tasmanian, Kif finds it hard to be taken seriously as a writer. Was that your experience? It was. When I started out, Tasmania was still a metaphor for everything Australians hated about themselves \u2013 their convict past, environmental rapacity, murderous racism and general insignificance. My first novel, Death of a River Guide, was refused a review in Australia\u2019s leading broadsheet on the grounds it fitted no recognisable school of Australian literature. Which is one of the sweetest compliments I have ever had. First Person nods to the rise of autofiction. Do you understand its popularity? I don\u2019t even understand its meaning. It has something to do with the French? I fear it may also have something to do with me. The problem is, as Flaubert exclaimed in exasperation: \u201cMadame Bovary, c\u2019est moi\u201d and novels were always stolen from everywhere and everything, not least the author\u2019s own soul. Labels are best left on jam jars. What can more conventional realist novels offer that autofiction can\u2019t? The larger truth that we are not one but many and that all that we don\u2019t know is everything we need to discover. Are you tempted to write your own memoirs? I\u2019m tempted by everything unwise, but I hope I don\u2019t give in to it. St Augustine prayed to the Lord to grant him sobriety and chastity, but not just yet. To which I would add memoir, but wisely St Augustine didn\u2019t. \u2022 First Person by Richard Flanagan is published by Chatto &amp; Windus (\u00a318.99). To order a copy for \u00a316.14 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"19||The COP23 climate change summit in Bonn and why it mattersWhat is happening? The world\u2019s nations are meeting for the 23rd annual \u201cconference of the parties\u201d (COP) under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) which aims to \u201cprevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system\u201d, ie halt global warming. It is taking place in Bonn, Germany from 6-17 November. Why does it matter? Climate change is already significantly increasing the likelihood of extreme weather, from heatwaves to floods. But without sharp cuts to global carbon emissions, we can expect \u201csevere, widespread, and irreversible impacts\u201d for billions of people and the natural world. The landmark Paris agreement at COP21 in 2015 delivered the first truly global deal to tackle climate change, but national action needs to be significantly toughened to meet to goal of keeping global temperature rise to well below 2C, and 1.5C if possible. All the science, and the battering that extreme weather has inflicted this year from floods in India and Nigeria to hurricanes in the Caribbean and wildfires in the US and Europe, indicates that global emissions need to start falling urgently \u2013 in the next few years. The Paris agreement set out principles, but not the details, with one diplomat likening it to having a brilliant new smartphone but no operating system. The Bonn meeting will be vital in building the rules that will enable the Paris deal to work. What\u2019s new? COPs are always run by a designated nation and for the first time this will be one of the small island nations that are most at risk from the sea-level rise and extreme storms that climate change is bringing. Fiji\u2019s prime minister, Frank Bainimarama, is the COP president, though the summit is being held in Germany for practical reasons. Fiji suffered damages of well over $1bn after Cyclone Winston struck in 2016, which is likely to focus attention on the contentious issue of compensation for climate damage and adapting to future threats, as much as cutting emissions. Hasn\u2019t Donald Trump pulling the US out of the Paris agreement scuppered hopes of progress? No. As the world\u2019s second biggest polluter and richest nation, the US is important. But when President Trump announced the US withdrawal in June \u2013 it takes effect in 2020 \u2013 the UN\u2019s chief climate negotiator, who delivered the Paris deal, ended up thanking him. \u201cIt provoked an unparalleled wave of support for the treaty,\u201d said Christiana Figueres. \u201cHe shored up the world\u2019s resolve on climate action, and for that we can all be grateful.\u201d The US now seems very isolated \u2013 only war-torn Syria is also outside the Paris deal. What role they will play in Bonn is largely unknown, though promotion of coal and gas as climate solutions is planned. Rumours that the climate-sceptic head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, would lead the US delegation proved unfounded however. One COP veteran said: \u201cThe mood on the ground is it is going to be OK: the US is not going to be a pain in the arse. They still don\u2019t know what they actually want.\u201d Nazhat Shameem Khan, Fiji\u2019s chief negotiator was even less diplomatic when asked about dealing with the US: \u201cYou can have a dialogue [even] with somebody who is an axe murderer.\u201d In any case, many US states, cities and businesses have pledged to honour the Paris deal and will have a high profile in Bonn. Former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg has said he will pay the $15m in UNFCCC administration costs if the US government does not. What needs to be done? The current pledges for carbon cuts by the world\u2019s nations would mean at least 3C of global warming and severe damage. So the Paris agreement included a mechanism for the pledges to be reviewed and ratcheted up, but without setting the rules. The vital groundwork for this has to be done in Bonn before being finalised in 2018. Without serious preparation to build trust and agreement, deals don\u2019t get done, as the failed COP in Copenhagen in 2009 showed. Fiji has renamed the ratchet talks process from the bland \u201cfacilitative dialogue\u201d to the \u201ctalanoa dialogue\u201d after a Pacific island concept of using storytelling and talking as a way to make good decisions. Could there be flashpoints? Yes. There are deep and longstanding tensions over the issue of \u201closs and damage\u201d, the idea that developing nations should be compensated for destruction resulting from climate change which they did little or nothing to cause. \u201cThe principle is one of compensation because the western countries developed their economies at the expense of the planet and of poor people,\u201d says Dorothy Grace Guerrero, at campaign group Global Justice Now. The stakes are heightened further as some developing nations feel they lost out in the Paris agreement which, unlike previous deals, does not impose legally binding commitments on rich nations. There is a strand of the negotiations tackling this \u2013 the Warsaw mechanism \u2013 but they have a \u201cglaring omission\u201d, according to aid groups: no money. The rich nations are opposed to loss and damage payments, seeing them as similar to calls for reparations for slavery. The issue is highly charged and needs to be resolved to prevent harm spreading to other areas of negotiation. Widespread and cheap insurance against extreme weather is a compromise being heavily pushed by western nations, for example the G7\u2019s InsuResilience initiative aimed at helping 400 million of the world\u2019s poorest people. But it is unclear how insurance could solve slow and inevitable problems like overwhelming sea-level rise on low-level coasts. What about the funds already pledged to help poorer nations? Rich nations had already pledged to provide $100bn a year by 2020 to help poorer nations restrict their emissions as they grow and adapt to climate change. But there are rows about what kind of funding should be counted and indeed whether $100bn is enough. The US was expected to be a big contributor and so a question to be tackled in Bonn is whether other countries will pick up the tab. Who else turns up for the COP? Nations do the negotiating but business groups pledging action also attend, such as the Renewable Energy 100 and We Mean Business, and in Bonn the California governor Jerry Brown and Bloomberg are expected to make a splash with an announcement about their America\u2019s Pledge initiative on 11 November. The presence of big fossil fuel companies is always controversial: detractors say their lobbying hinders progress while defenders say the low-carbon revolution won\u2019t happen without getting them on board. The civil society groups that are always a big part of every COP will protest on this issue, in particular against the lignite coal industry near Bonn that still provides a lot of Germany\u2019s power. \u201cSome of our guests will be fairly surprised to see just how much Germany still relies on coal,\u201d says Annalena Baerbock, climate spokesperson of Germany\u2019s Green party. NGOs also pressure nations to increase their ambition and aid smaller nations that lack the negotiating resources of the bigger countries. COPs are certainly becoming broader, with Figueres saying: \u201cParis is everyone\u2019s deal. It belongs to cities, businesses, NGOs and all of global civil society as much as it belongs to nation-states.\u201d Won\u2019t the Bonn summit have a massive carbon footprint? There will be 10,000 government delegates, another 8,000 people from other groups and 2,000 members of the media travelling to Bonn from all over the globe. The organisers are trying to avoid as many emissions as possible, for example by using electric buses for conference transport. But the emissions that can\u2019t be avoided will be offset, mainly using UN-certified schemes in small island states, in recognition of Fiji\u2019s presidency of the COP. So what represents success in Bonn? An editorial in the leading science journal Nature, which calls the Paris accord a \u201ctriumph\u201d, puts it succinctly: \u201cIn theory, the annual climate roller coaster is idling through one of the low-key phases in which success is measured by nothing going wrong. In practice, the Bonn meeting will serve as a litmus test of how the rest of the world plans to stand united [without the US] and to keep the spirit of Paris alive.\u201d"
"16||The Killing of a Sacred Deer review \u2013 uneasy about a boy\u201cThat critical moment we both knew would come someday \u2013 here it is\u2026\u201d After the jet-black social satire of Dogtooth, the role-playing bereavement of Alps and the quasi-sci-fi tragicomedy of The Lobster, Greek director Yorgos Lanthimos sets his sights on something altogether more unsettling. Segueing seamlessly from the theatre of absurdity to cruelty, he presents a tale of mythical, methodical revenge that starts with an ironic chuckle and moves inexorably towards a silent scream. Taking its titular theme from the myth of Iphigenia, The Killing of a Sacred Deer is a wrathful tale of retribution and responsibility transposed from the stages of ancient Greece to the screens of 21st-century cinema. On one level it\u2019s a typically arch dramatic conundrum, laced with Lanthimos\u2019s trademark off-kilter artifice and deadpan humour. On another, it\u2019s a Saw movie for the arthouse crowd, an increasingly sickening hunger game driven by an inflexible moral imperative, with a whiff of medical misadventure. Colin Farrell, star of The Lobster, plays heart surgeon Steven Murphy \u2013 wealthy, slightly world-weary and too fond of a drink. An arresting opening image of a pulsating heart operation ends with surgical gloves being dumped in the trash, symbolically removing blood from the surgeon\u2019s hands \u2013 for now. Steven lives in a grand, cavernous home with his wife, Anna (Nicole Kidman, Farrell\u2019s co-star in The Beguiled), daughter Kim (Raffey Cassidy), and younger son Bob (Sunny Suljic). Their lives are materially rich, but emptiness prevails. Perhaps that\u2019s what drives Steven to meet up with Martin (Barry Keoghan), a callow youth whose relationship with the surgeon is suspiciously unclear. For a while, things progress in familiar alienated fashion. The dialogue is theatrically mundane \u2013 discussions of watchstraps, lemon cake and menstruation, delivered in the monochromatic rhythms of a trance state. \u201cGeneral anaesthetic?\u201d asks Anna, before draping herself across the bed in a comatose pose, feigning unconsciousness for her husband\u2019s ritual pleasure. Gradually, Martin inveigles his way into this picture-perfect family life, visiting the house, impressing the teenage daughter. Later, Steven meets Martin\u2019s tragically needy mum (a sharp cameo by Alicia Silverstone), who tells him he has \u201cbeautiful hands\u201d, and insists pathetically that \u201cI won\u2019t let you leave until you\u2019ve tried my tart!\u201d The line gets a giggle, but the laughter rings hollow. Slowly, what once seemed funny starts to become weirdly frightening. Lanthimos\u2019s regular cinematographer, Thimios Bakatakis, accentuates the sense of dread as his cameras creep and crawl through hospital corridors, like the lurking spirits in The Shining \u2013 all low-angle prowls and ghostly high glides. Thunderous music cues (including bursts of Ligeti) crank up the cracked tone, ominous and screechy. As black comedy gives way to grand guignol, we are reminded of the tortured games that Michael Haneke once played upon his bourgeois protagonists and audiences. There are echoes, too, of The Exorcist as children succumb to mystery illnesses, leaving doctors pontificating pointlessly about psychosomatic symptoms in state-of-the-art hospitals. Observing it all is Martin, brilliantly played by Keoghan to combine the awkwardness of youth with the suggestion of terrible power. At times, Martin resembles a young Norman Bates, wide-eyed and unknowingly dangerous. Elsewhere, he seems like a dorky descendant of Ezra Miller\u2019s eponymous teen in We Need to Talk About Kevin, the bearer of projected parental guilt. Throughout, Lanthimos and regular co-writer Efthymis Filippou leave us tantalisingly uncertain as to whether this intense young man is the architect or messenger of forces beyond our ken. When awful truths are revealed, they are recited like cursed verse, conjuring a fable-like sense of fate, out of step with contemporary concepts of choice. It\u2019s that clash between the ancient and the modern, the farcical and the fearsome, which gives The Killing of a Sacred Deer its edge. While the setting may seem at first more \u201crealistic\u201d than the worlds of Lanthimos\u2019s previous films, any sense of familiarity merely accentuates the eeriness of the otherworldly elements (Rosemary\u2019s Baby author Ira Levin would have appreciated the juxtaposition). Similarly, the battle between ice-cool irony and full-blooded horror remains perpetually unresolved, leaving the audience squirming with uncertainty when things turn nasty. Viewers will doubtless have their own vastly differing reactions to this bizarre drama. Farrell has said that making the film left him \u201cfucking depressed\u201d; others may be variously amused or appalled. I veered between being impressed, alarmed, confused and creeped-out. That, I suspect, would make Lanthimos laugh."
"22||Harry Styles review \u2013 fruitful times for a star still finding himselfBlame the law of unintended consequences: the kiwi fruit has had a pivotal role to play in Harry Styles\u2019s first UK tour as a solo star. On stage in London, Styles slipped on one. Thrown by a fan, it was not a negative review of the former boy band member\u2019s new, rockier bent, but a ploy to get Styles to play his song Kiwi \u2013 one of the more guitar-driven tracks on his self-titled debut album, released last May. On the Manchester leg of the tour, a branch of Asda actually banned the sale of kiwis to anyone under 25. But at least one rogue kiwi got in there; Styles had to duck another missile. In Glasgow, thankfully, they eschew fruit. We are inside a small theatre known as the Armadillo; arenas will follow in 2018. When Styles finally plays Kiwi, it brings this small, but baying twentysomething crowd to a peak. A pummelling glam stomp, it depicts a heady affair involving \u201chard liquor mixed with a little bit of intellect\u201d. The song is rumoured to be about Styles\u2019s tryst with a New Zealand model, perhaps the one who posted a video on Snapchat of Styles playing Scrabble with her in a dressing gown. Transported by the power of rock\u2019n\u2019roll, Styles ends tonight\u2019s full-blooded rendition of Kiwi by flinging a pint of liquid over the crowd and chucking the plastic glass after it. He is clearly enjoying himself; and, you could argue, he deserves to. Styles has managed to turn his back on One Direction and their sound without rubbishing his days as a teen idol. He covers two 1D songs tonight, Stockholm Syndrome and What Makes You Beautiful, duly guitared-up to fit the new regime. By contrast, Zayn Malik left 1D acrimoniously, and pointedly turned into a sultry R&amp;B heartthrob. The various other Directions have taken myriad other musical paths, none of them much good. Live, Styles\u2019s tunes vary, but largely convince. A song like Two Ghosts \u2013 allegedly about his relationship with Taylor Swift \u2013 has all the makings of a terrific country song, perhaps in tribute to Swift\u2019s genre roots; it is crying out for a weepy pedal-steel solo. Carolina, by contrast, emphasises the album\u2019s gentle familiarity with the Beatles\u2019 catalogue. The stompers here are punctuated by dreamy, gauzy intros and interludes, sensitive indie-rock shadings and unexpectedly good musicianship \u2013 particularly from guitarist Mitch Rowland, plucked from pizza-restaurant obscurity to co-write much of Harry Styles. He could easily solo most obnoxiously \u2013 the version of \u201crock\u201d that most often turns up in pop. Instead, he confines his guitar to well-appointed groans rather than squeals. There is only one truly terrible song \u2013 Only Angel, a series of boorish musical and lyrical cliches that sits ill with the moving, believable candour of tracks like From the Dining Table, in which Styles masturbates sadly in a hotel room. Listening to it all again, Styles\u2019s album is, for the most part, full of regret at silences and miscommunication \u2013 a convincing display of emotional intelligence that puts peers like Justin Bieber in deep shade. Styles has two women in his band \u2013 drummer Sarah Jones and Scottish keyboard player Clare Uchima, whose family are well-represented in the house. (\u201cIf you\u2019re a crazy Glaswegian auntie,\u201d Styles hollers at the end of the heavy funk-rock of Woman, \u201cput your hands in the air!\u201d) The majority of Styles\u2019s LA tourmates, Muna, identify as queer; his merchandise says \u201ctreat people with kindness\u201d. Towards the end, Styles gets everyone to hold the hand of the person next to them, encouraging support and non-judgment. You get the sense that, having matured in content and developed some muscular snowflake tendencies, Styles is still trying out identities \u2013 stagediving free spirit (just the once in LA), heartland balladeer, dandy, sensitive soul. He hasn\u2019t gone the full Matt Healy (the 1975\u2019s singer routinely sports leather trousers) but Styles\u2019s uncertain grasp of what guitar music purveyors should look like is expressed by a series of garish Austin Powers suits. Tonight, perhaps the most disappointing revelation about Styles Mk II is that he has so little natural rhythm. The two most successful boy band refugees \u2013 Justin Timberlake and Robbie Williams \u2013 have the super-smooth moves of more natural show-offs. Styles, by contrast, expresses abandon by stalking across the stage, shaking his fists. He makes no mention of kiwis, but brings on a leathery cingulate. \u201cThis is the nicest armadillo I have ever come across,\u201d he beams."
"0||O\u2019Neills embody cerebral tradition of Blanchflower and Irish game\u2019s best\u201cThinkers are the deadliest men\u201d Liam Brady was playing for Internazionale in Serie A when he said this to Hugh McIlvanney in the Observer in 1984. Brady had won two Italian titles with Juventus and was discussing the stylistic contrast between Italy and England, where Brady had been such an elegant force at Arsenal for a decade, and was the Professional Footballers\u2019 Association\u2019s Player of the Year in 1979. \u201cThe public don\u2019t necessarily want a lot of hectic, brainless action,\u201d Brady added. \u201cThey like to see quality, thinking players.\u201d Around 20 years earlier Danny Blanchflower, another eloquent Irish midfielder, and an Observer columnist, had said: \u201cI think, therefore I\u2019m dangerous.\u201d Blanchflower had captained Northern Ireland to the World Cup quarter-finals in 1958, the same year he was voted Footballer of the Year. He won the award again in 1961. Irish football regulators did not always enjoy Blanchflower; they branded him \u201can out-and\u2011out Communist\u201d for standing up for players\u2019 rights. As he said, they considered him dangerous because he thought and read \u2013 on retirement in 1964 Blanchflower quoted F Scott Fitzgerald. It was an untypical response from a footballer, perhaps, but it was typical Blanchflower. As his Tottenham team-mate Jimmy Greaves said: \u201cLyrical, poetic and poignant \u2026 to me Danny was the Oscar Wilde of Windsor Park.\u201d Over the coming week, as Northern Ireland prepare to face Switzerland and the Republic of Ireland ready themselves for Denmark in World Cup qualifying play-offs, there will be comment on virtues such as spirit and raucous energy. Less will be said about another strand of Irish football: intelligence. It comes in different forms \u2013 academic, streetwise, intuitive. The current Republic manager, Martin O\u2019Neill, embodies these; he was starting a law degree at Queen\u2019s University, Belfast, when he scored for Distillery against Barcelona in the European Cup Winners\u2019 Cup in 1971. Similarly the Northern Ireland manager, Michael O\u2019Neill, was doing his A-levels when he was bought by Newcastle United from the Irish League club Coleraine in 1987. O\u2019Neill continued to attend school in Newcastle after he signed but, as he says of being in the first team at 18 alongside Paul Gascoigne: \u201cIt becomes difficult going to school as a Newcastle United player.\u201d So O\u2019Neill did not complete his maths A-level. Then, seven years later, playing for Northern Ireland, O\u2019Neill made the most of time in Belfast before an international: \u201cI went to Queen\u2019s and sat the Open University maths exam. The game was on a Wednesday, I sat the exam on a Tuesday.\u201d Michael O\u2019Neill went into accountancy when he finished playing. He and his namesake Martin are sharp, cerebral and part of a tradition dating back to the dawn of Irish football. In the first season of the Irish League, 1890-91, a club from Co Armagh, Milford, joined seven from Belfast. Milford\u2019s goalkeeper was a 25-year-old called William McCrum. He conceded 62 goals that first season but well before then what bothered him more was unsporting behaviour. \u201cSoccer\u201d, as it was, was emerging from rugby football and it was rough. McCrum had crimes and punishment on his mind, so this young keeper came up with a solution: the penalty-kick. Initially rejected in 1890 and scorned as \u201cthe Irishman\u2019s motion\u201d, in June the next year McCrum\u2019s idea became Law 14 of Association Football, as it remains. The man who invented the penalty, who added justice and drama to the sport, was a thoughtful goalkeeper from Armagh. McCrum was the first of two Irishmen to change the geometry, tactics and rhythm of the global game. The second was Bill McCracken. From the Falls Road in Belfast, McCracken may not be renowned today but in his era he was infamous. He was born in 1883 and British newspapers were serialising McCracken\u2019s life story by 1914. He left his local club Distillery for Newcastle United in 1904 and won three league titles and an FA Cup in his first six years on Tyneside. More than this, though, McCracken earned unequalled hostility across England from fans who resented a tactic he perfected: offside. So effective was McCracken he provoked pitch invasions. More significant, in 1925, the offside rule was changed, largely because of him. Previously three players were required to be behind an attacker receiving the ball. After McCracken it was two. \u201cI was an overlapping wing-back before the term was invented,\u201d he said \u2013 in 1919. The Manchester Guardian\u2019s Don Davies \u2013 killed in the Munich air crash \u2013 called McCracken \u201cthe Irish Mephistopheles \u2026 he made [people] think, and that has never been a popular mission\u201d. Later, as a Newcastle scout, McCracken brought the young George Eastham back to England from the Irish League club Ards. It was Eastham who later fought Newcastle in the courts, initiating football\u2019s original freedom of movement ruling in 1963; McCracken, banned from playing for Ireland for 10 years due to a pay dispute, may have passed on some truculence. Eastham called him \u201can authentic football pioneer\u201d. McCracken would begin jaunty Irish reports with: \u201cFrom the land of spuds and buttermilk.\u201d Another original was Peter Doherty, from Magherafelt. When last year Lionel Messi and Luis Su\u00e1rez scored a joint penalty for Barcelona, some commentators immediately referenced Robert Pires and Thierry Henry in 2005, others mentioned Johan Cruyff and Jesper Olsen in 1982. But as Stanley Matthews said many years ago, he saw Doherty perform the penalty trick in 1945. Len Shackleton called Doherty \u201cthe genius among geniuses\u201d. Harry Gregg says Doherty was \u201ca man apart\u201d. When Blanchflower led that Irish team at the 1958 World Cup, Doherty was manager. They qualified ahead of Italy and Portugal, Blanchflower and Jimmy McIlroy producing the \u201cDoherty penalty\u201d against the Portuguese. The referee was so baffled he disallowed it. McIlroy was known as the \u201cbrain\u201d of Burnley, English champions in 1960. Via McCrum, McCracken and McIlroy, Jackie Carey and Johnny Giles, through George Best to Brady and restless Roy Keane and the O\u2019Neills, Irish football has produced more than scufflers. It has a history of original thinkers who understand Blanchflower\u2019s nuance: \u201cWinning isn\u2019t everything, but wanting to win is.\u201d Green Shoots: Irish Football Histories by Michael Walker (DeCoubertin)"
"2||Brisbane and Central Coast draw, PNG and Italy victorious in Rugby League World Cup and more: sportwatch \u2013 as it happenedThankyou for joining me That\u2019s all from me here on this Sunday Sportwatch. It wasn\u2019t the most memorable A-League feature game, with a nil-all draw between the Roar and Mariners. That\u2019s a record losing streak for Brisbane, as neither side manages their first win for the season. The Mariners were probably the more deserving side of the two, but both goalkeepers - neither their side\u2019s first choice - were impressive in ensuring a clean sheet for both teams. De Silva will be rueing several gilt-edged opportunities to score for Central Coast, while Maccarone can consider himself lucky the VAR let him get away with what looked like a punch to the face. Earlier today, in part one of the W-League/A-League double-header, American Rachel Hill made a name for herself on Australian soil, with a hat-trick, while Sam Kerr again impressed for the Glory, scoring herself, and setting up Kerr twice. Glory ran out 4-1 winners over the Roar. In the Rugby League World Cup, results went as expected, with the Azzurri winning 46-0 over the USA, and PNG grinding out a closer-than-expected win over the Irish, 14-6. For PNG, Garry Lo provided the fireworks, while Tedesco put a week of controversy behind him to score a double for Italy alongside Josh Mantellato. In the final game for tonight the Fijians will take on Wales in North Queensland, with plenty of emotion again surfacing during the Fijian national anthem. Meanwhile, PNG have prevailed over Ireland in their Rugby League World Cup outing, winning 14-6. Ireland scored the early converted try, to race to a 6-0 lead, but were unable to score again. Garry Lo provided plenty of highlights, running 153 metres for two line breaks and a try. A try to Watson Boas in the 79th minute sealed the result for the Kumuls. Fiji will now take on Wales in the final game for the day - in what should be a convincing win for Fiji. This just in from Wires on the Italy v USA clash: Italy ended a difficult week on a high with a 46-0 rout of the United States in their World Cup clash in Townsville. A heavy defeat by Ireland in their opener was followed by a much-publicised dust-up between full-back James Tedesco and Huddersfield forward Shannon Wakeman which resulted in fines. But both players were named in Cameron Ciraldo\u2019s squad for Sunday\u2019s match and they played their part in a thumping win. Tedesco scored two of Italy\u2019s eight tries, with Joey Tramontana helping himself to a double and Josh Mantellato, Ryan Ghietti, Paul Vaughan and Mason Cerruto also crossing. The United States reached the quarter-finals four years ago but Brian McDermott\u2019s side are already out after back-to-back heavy defeats. Well, both teams will have to wait another week for their first win. Wellington Phoenix drop to the bottom of the A-League table, while the Roar are seven weeks without a win for the first time in A-League history. It\u2019s also the first goalless draw for this A-League season - not the finest honour. Ben Kennedy provided two brilliant saves for the Mariners, while Jamie Young also did a fine job of stepping up in the absence Bautheac wins player of the match for the Roar. He needs a translator - and says he takes no solace in the award, since the team has not come away with the win. Down the other end, Jamie Young also did a fine job in the absence of Michael Theo. Still, De Silva should really have scored on the break a couple of times, but was too slow in his execution. One of the talking points, no doubt, will be the performance of the VAR and on-field officials - hard to believe the Maccarone hit to the face went without penalty, while Papadopolous looked certain to give away a penalty for his careless defending in the box. Think, despite the conjecture in the first half, that the off-side call for Maccarone may have been correct - or at least too difficult to overturn. Can\u2019t say the same for several controversial second half decisions. A-League 94:25 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Brama being held by Skapetis. Will this be the chance the Mariners need to claim the win? Hoole takes it and the delivery isn\u2019t bad - but it\u2019s off the head of McGing and out. Paul Okon looks highly unimpressed with the quality of this game. Down the other end the Roar have a corner and it\u2019s a dangerous one - Maccarone just misses the header, which Jade North hits on the dive. Amazing save by Kennedy. Hoole meanwhile finds his way into the penalty box, but his touch is poor and it\u2019s out for a goal kick. Very disappointing. A-League 91:00 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners \u201cA lack of quality is why these teams are both down the bottom of the ladder\u201d - couldn\u2019t agree more! A-League 87:00 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Just five minutes to go plus stoppage time and it\u2019s getting sloppy. Buhagiar comes on for Asdrubal. The Roar finally force a corner - with the crowd behind them. Papadopolous gets his head to it, but it\u2019s well wide. A-League 83:56 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Bautheac is off for Skapetis as the Roar look to change the tide of momentum currently going against them. Asdr\u00fabal wins the foul, and the Mariners come again. Oxborrow now off for Jacob Pepper after he\u2019s given a yellow for pulling back his opponent. A-League 82:00 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Appiah fires a ball into Asdr\u00fabal but it\u2019s too fast and too far behind him. The Mariners look much more likely to break the deadlock now. A-League 77:40 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Sloppy play from the Mariners gifts Oxborrow a long-range shot on his left, but it\u2019s too high to trouble the keeper. Down the other end Appiah is into the action immediately. McGing delivers an outstanding cross, which results in a beauty of a header from De Silva. It\u2019s a wonderful save from Young again - who has had a great game as a stand-in. It\u2019s off-side anyway, but a great save. De Silva goes into the book for a poor tackle on Papadopolous. A-League 74:26 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners McGing again, he finds Asdr\u00fabal who should\u2019ve been in - excellent work from Jamie Young. Still, De Silva has another excellent chance to hit the deflection - and he\u2019s too slow again! Pain comes off for Appiah - don\u2019t mind that move. Pain has been one of the Mariners\u2019 better players, but Appiah looked dangerous late against the Victory. A-League 71:26 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Corner off North, after a nice in-swinging cross by McGing. He\u2019s provided some good delivery for his team. Pain has a long-range shot, but it\u2019s easily dealt with. A-League 70:15 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Holman to come off for Gameiro - what a nice moment amongst a less than appealing match so far. Great to see him on - and the Roar supporters are up and about. A-League 65:00 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Maccarone gets a boot to the face by Golec - whch earns Golec a card and Khalfallah a free-kick. It\u2019s a long way out, and there\u2019s an appeal for handball, but it\u2019s not paid. De Silva takes the deflection all the way down the ground and finds the side of the net. Great run. We\u2019re all still reeling from how Maccarone got away with that punch in the face. A-League 61:00 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners De Silva takes a dive in the box and draws the ire of the referee. Looked like Maccarone actually hit him in the face, to be fair, after pushing him. Here comes the VAR - but there\u2019s no further action taken. Very strange. I also can\u2019t understand how Papadopoulos didn\u2019t give away a penalty against McGing, but nevermind. A-League 58:00 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Yellow card for Hingert who catches Conor Pain on the run with a sliding tackle. Pain with the set play from just outside the box on the left wing. It\u2019s cleared - but McGing is down and very sore after a clash of heads with Papadopolous. Looked to be illegal contact. A-League 54:20 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Another golden chance to score after a beautiful cross from Bautheac. Lucky Josh Rose read the ball well to clip the header, before Kennedy was again called into action by a stinging strike from Hingert. Excellent save. Seems as if Baro is injured. A-League 52:00 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Apologies for the brief break due to technical difficulties (aka a horrible internet connection - and no it\u2019s not NBN). De Silva has a gilt-edged chance to score from an awful turnover from Oxborrow in defence. No idea what he was doing there - and his keeper in Young looked mortified. Luckily he sprung to action and saved the shot on goal - but De Silva really should have done better from there. He was alone, with time and the advantage of a shock chance. Rose comes on for Baro in the first change of the game for the Mariners. Rugby League World Cup H2 42:00 Italy 32-0 USA A much more one-sided contest over here, with the Azzurri well up against the USA, 28-0 at half time. Joe Tramontana has a double for his side. Make that 32-0 as play resumes and Tedesco cleans up a dropped USA ball to dive over in the corner! Rugby League World Cup half-time PNG 8-6 Ireland The Irish hit the lead early - in the 4th minute to be exact, through Michael McIlorum, but PNG hit back with a couple of tries - to Garry Lo in the 15th minute and Nene MacDonald in the 25th. Lo\u2019s in the 15th was PNG have dominated play - with 60% of possession, and 8-0 line breaks to PNG. Garry Lo beat about five players in ten metres to score - but I can\u2019t find a replay of that incredible try. Here\u2019s Nene McDonald\u2019s instead. A-League 44:50 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Can\u2019t get much clearer than this on the off-side. Hard to overturn that surely - would\u2019ve appeared the right call in real-time. Just the one minute of stoppage time for this half. A-League 40:22 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Mariners go very close to scoring but for some excellent reflexes from Jamie Young. McGing was almost in with the header after some pinpoint delivery by Hoole. Nice scrambling on the last line by the Roar. A-League 39:40 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Still lots of conjecture over the Maccarone off-side, which Aloisi was decidedly unhappy about. The main point of conjecture seems to be about the inconsistent use of the VAR. A-League 37:10 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Beautiful release from Bautheac, which finds Khalfallah out wide. His immediate cross forces a corner \u2013 but it\u2019s a poor effort from Bautheac, which sails wide over Kennedy and out of play. A-League 32:30 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Maccarone looks for a penalty after Kennedy catches him by the ankles, but the flag goes up for off-side (he looked only JUST off-side - perhaps with a back leg?) He was set up ideally for a score after the Bautheac strike deflected off Kennedy and into Maccarone\u2019s path. A-League 29:43 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners The Mariners have finally got some rhythm into their approach \u2013 but are a little slow pulling the pin on their passes. They\u2019ve had 66% possession in the last five minutes. A-League 25:40 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Here come the Mariners finally, who win a corner off a North deflection. Hoole delivers a deep ball, and Asdr\u00fabal gets some rare possession, but it\u2019s won back by Holman. Pain forces another corner with a dangerous looking cross. De Silva goes short but the Mariners\u2019 defence aren\u2019t fooled. Hoole thinks the Mariners have a third corner - and it looks to have been clearly deflected off McKay - but it\u2019s ruled otherwise. Papadopoulos looks to have a groin injury of some kind. A-League 20:07 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Maccarone almost dinks Kennedy - but misses narrowly to the right. The deflection spilt backwards from the Mariners\u2019 midfield defensive line, and set the Italian up for what should have been a fairly regulation shot. He\u2019s looming large, Maccarone. A-League 18:07 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Holman gets a second chance in the box - but Golec provides the block after a scramble from the defence. Some nice footwork from Holman to set up the second chance - and a nice, diving block from Golec. There were some shouts of handball by the Roar, but the replay shows there\u2019s no such trouble. A-League 15:30 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Free-kick results to Maccarone on the edge of the Mariners\u2019 penalty area \u2013 the error is McGing\u2019s. Kennedy guards the near post \u2013 and Maccarone\u2019s shot is well over the crossbar. Disappointing effort from the set play. A-League 13:27 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners After more than 10 minutes gone, there\u2019s almost nothing between these sides possession-wise. 2-0 intercepts to the Roar, as well as 3-0 crosses. Otherwise, passing accuracy and other key stats almost level. Plenty of possession to Baro (15), Hiariej (13) and McKay (12). A-League 09:07 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners Big collision between Golec and Bautheac, it looks borderline in terms of a yellow - and Golec gets off. Looked simply too fast for Bautheac. Maccarone gets another shot in on Kennedy - this time a header, but Kennedy isn\u2019t challenged. A-League 06:50 Brisbane Roar 0-0 Central Coast Mariners And we\u2019re off. Our commentators (Simon Hill and Andy Harper) are discussing the fact that Jade North is currently the only indigenous A-League football player in the league. They ask what more can be done to draw indigenous players to football. Good question, would love your thoughts! There\u2019s also a lot of love for the new away strip for the Mariners. Again, I invite your thoughts. Here goes Maccarone from the box, who finds Jack Hingert out wide to the right. But his shot on goal is little to no threat to Ben Kennedy, who tidies up neatly. A-League Brisbane Roar v Central Coast Mariners Our teams are lined up and almost ready to go. Pitch is almost entirely bathed in shade today, after the Brisbane and Perth W-League teams played in much harsher sun. It\u2019s 29 degrees in Brisbane currently. NBL NBL duopoly Perth Wildcats and New Zealand Breakers are set to clash three times in their next four games, after establishing themselves as the early-season pace-setters. Star-studded Melbourne United (4-3) forced their way back into the contenders conversation by snapping a three-match losing streak and recording two big home wins, but it\u2019s the Breakers (6-1) and Wildcats (5-1), leading the way. The Breakers made it six straight wins with a couple of narrow victories in round five. They squeezed out a 92-88 home win over Adelaide and followed up with a 73-70 away victory over Cairns, who had won the last five tussles between the two clubs. In an amazing climax, guard Edgar Sosa hit a game-winning three-pointer with four seconds to go, but Taipans captain Cam Gliddon nailed a three-quarter court prayer with 0.1 second left. However, Gliddon\u2019s miracle shot was ruled too late, as NBL rules stipulate a shot under 0.3 seconds cannot be a catch and shoot. The Breakers and Wildcats have each won four of the last eight NBL titles. Australian Associated Press Back shortly with A-League minute by minute updates. Indo Pacific Rugby Championship It looks like Andrew Forrest has agreed to play his new Indo Pacific Rugby Championship during the Super Rugby window, with its inaugural season pushed back to 2019. Forrest and Rugby Australia (formerly the ARU) have agreed to a series of core principles regarding the new competition, but nothing has been signed off. The IPRC was initially set to be played after the Super season in the August-October period, but it will now be played from March-June if it can get World Rugby approval. Australian Associated Press Tim Cahill update Now the update I\u2019m sure you\u2019re all waiting for - it looks like Tim Cahill will fly to Honduras, but it\u2019s not clear whether he\u2019ll actually play. The good news is that he hasn\u2019t fractured his ankle, but he\u2019ll leave a day later than the rest of his teammates to continue rehab. Cahill injured his ankle in Melbourne City\u2019s 1-0 A-League loss to Sydney FC, landing awkwardly after he tried to hurdle Jordi Buijs. Robbie Kruse won\u2019t make the trip to San Pedro Sula - after he took a knock to the knee with VfL Bochum. He\u2019ll meet the rest of the team in Sydney for the critical second leg, as will Mathew Leckie and Mark Milligan (who are currently suspended). The absence of Cahill alongside Kruse, Leckie and Milligan would be a huge blow for the Socceroos\u2019 chances. Tennis Anyone else been following Ash Barty\u2019s incredible comeback? Seems like Steffi Graf has, describing her rise up the rankings as an \u201cincredible story\u201d. Barty could finish the year as high as No16 after she reached the WTA Elite Trophy semi-finals last week: \u201cThis time last year Barty was ranked outside the world\u2019s top 300 and in late 2014 appeared to be lost to the sport when, citing the need for a mental break, she took up cricket. \u201cI don\u2019t completely know exactly how she came back to playing cricket and then back to tennis but it is a pretty incredible story,\u201d Graf said. \u201cSeeing her play so well, especially this year from where she\u2019s started to where she\u2019s ending, it\u2019s a pretty incredible speed of how she\u2019s finding herself back into the tennis tour.\u201d The Ipswich product had nine wins against top-20 opponents this season, including a straight sets thumping of two-time grand slam champion and former world No.1 Angelique Kerber last Thursday. Australian Associated Press W-League Like this quirky stat from our resident W-League columnist Ann Odong. Very impressive from the American. Shrewd signing by the Glory. A-League Brisbane Roar v Central Coast Mariners starting XIs Here are our starting line-ups for the double-header clash between the Central Coast and Brisbane Roar. Confirmation that Corey Gameiro is in as a substitute. Ingham will start at fullback. Aloisi confirms Theo has carried the finger injury from the beginning of the season. Roux hasn\u2019t recovered in time for the Mariners, so McGing is in back in his place. A hat-trick to Rachel Hill highlights a convincing win by the Glory over the Roar. That\u2019s back-to-back 4-1 wins for their team, and they\u2019ll top the table at the end of this round. Sam Kerr scored the other for her team, and also assisted Hill for her first goal. It was likewise Kerr\u2019s cross which created the opportunity for Hill\u2019s second, while Kerr forced her own penalty against Arnold. There are no signs of her form letting up. The Roar will be disappointed with the magnitude of the loss, particularly after they equalised only 60 seconds after Hill\u2019s opening goal. Rugby League World Cup In RLWC news, Scotland have axed three players, including their captain Danny Brough, from their squad for misconduct. The others are Sam Brooks and Johnny Walker. The three stayed in Christchurch on Sunday following their 74-6 loss to New Zealand, while the rest of the team flew to Cairns to prepare for their clash with Samoa next weekend. According to Australian Associated Press \u201cit\u2019s believed they were deemed too drunk to board a plane\u201d. \u201cIt\u2019s understood the matter will not be investigated by the tournament\u2019s integrity unit, but will still spell the end of the trio\u2019s campaign after they were released by team management.\u201d \u201cWe expect everyone involved in Scotland Rugby League to adhere to the highest standards of behaviour,\u201d Scotland Rugby League chairman Keith Hogg said. \u201cUnfortunately, these three players have not adhered to those standards and those values and will be leaving early from a tournament that it is a privilege for us to be involved in.\u201d There are several RLWC fixtures on today: PNG v Ireland at 5pm AEDT, Italy v US also at 5pm AEDT and Fiji v Wales at 7:30pm AEDT. I\u2019ll give you updates on the first two games during half-time of the A-League. W-League 83:05 Brisbane 1-4 Perth Glory And it\u2019s a hat-trick to Rachel Hill! There was some question as to whether Kerr was offside, but there was no interference with play and the goal stands. That\u2019s five goals in two games for the US youngster. She enjoyed an incredible college career \u2013 scoring 61 goals in 89 games for the University of Connecticut. She then joined Orlando Pride \u2013 the same club as Westfield Matildas Steph Catley and Alanna Kennedy - earlier this year and found the net eight times in 15 games in the NWSL. W-League 77:10 Brisbane Roar 1-3 Perth Glory It took a while to break the deadlock - it was nil all until the 42nd minute, when Sam Kerr provided the assist for Rachel Hill to score from the centre of the box into the top right-hand corner. It took Brisbane less than a minute, however, to equalise, with a very close-range shot into the bottom right corner (assisted by Clare Polkinghorne from a well-drilled set piece). Then, in the 59th minute, Hill scored a double after the Glory peppered Mackenzie Arnold\u2019s net following a dangerous Sam Kerr cross. Hill capitalised on a deflection off Arnold from close range. Live, Kerr has just taken a touch from Arnold \u2013 and wins a penalty for her efforts. She\u2019ll line up to extend the Glory\u2019s lead to two goals. She hits it emphatically. It\u2019s 3-1 Glory. Here\u2019s the goal that broke the 0-0 deadlock. Welcome Hello everyone and welcome to this Sunday afternoon edition of Sportwatch. I\u2019m Kate O\u2019Halloran, and I\u2019m here to take you through some of today\u2019s action, whatever your preferred shape of ball. Our feature game for today is the 5pm A-League clash between cellar-dwellers Brisbane Roar and Central Coast Mariners at Suncorp Stadium. Both sides will be desperate for a first-up win for the season, and it is Brisbane who will take in the head-to-head advantage, having won their last eight against the Mariners. It\u2019s their longest winning streak against any club in the competition\u2019s history. They\u2019ve also managed 17 goals in their last four games against the Mariners at this stadium. Roar will, however, be without veteran goalkeeper Michael Theo, who will miss a couple of weeks with a finger injury. In his place steps in Jamie Young who is no stranger to A-League appearances against the Mariners; he has made 65 against the Central Coast. Of course Theo has plenty of company on the sidelines \u2013 joining Luke DeVere (out for at least 10 weeks with a knee), Corey Brown (hamstring), Daniel Bowles (knee), Thomas Kristensen (hamstring) and Shannon Brady (foot). In good news, John Aloisi\u2019s side did come back from 3-0 down at half-time against the Phoenix last Saturday, and will be hoping to take some of that second-half form into today\u2019s clash. I\u2019m looking forward to seeing what former Italian international striker Massimo Maccarone produces today \u2013 he has looked ominous in his first few appearances on Australian soil. We will also see the feel-good return of Corey Gameiro, after his third knee reconstruction in four years. He\u2019s been named on the bench. Paul Okon knows his side will be up against it to come away from today\u2019s match with a win; the Mariners haven\u2019t won outside NSW since they defeated Adelaide 2-1 in November 2016. News has also just filtered through that Ben Kennedy will debut in Tom Glover\u2019s place (who has a minor shoulder injury), which means Adam Pearce moves to the bench. Storm Roux is likewise out with a minor ankle injury. The Mariners have attempted more passes than any other team this season, and have the best passing accuracy of 80%. Daniel De Silva is in particularly good form \u2013 with 187 passes at 86% accuracy. He\u2019s also won 29 duels from 52, won 11 fouls, and scored once from four games to date. Look for him to shine, alongside Golec who has the best passing accuracy of any player to have made at least 200 passes this season. He\u2019s likewise one of only four players to have made over 10 interceptions and 10 tackles. This should be a fairly close one, even if the Roar have the edge historically. Kate will be here shortly. In the meantime, here\u2019s how the Wallabies fared in yesterday\u2019s historic Test match in Yokohama."
"15||'I was in shock!': all the winners of our graphic short story prize interviewedNo one can remember exactly how, 10 years ago, we came to start the graphic short story prize. Naturally, I would love to take the credit. But in truth, the idea must have come originally from Dan Franklin of Jonathan Cape, publisher of the UK\u2019s most prominent list of graphic novels. In 2007, comics were finally beginning to take off in Britain: the animated film of Marjane Satrapi\u2019s memoir Persepolis was just about to be released; Guy Delisle\u2019s travelogue, Burma Chronicles, and Rutu Modan\u2019s novel Exit Wounds, set in Tel Aviv during a period of bomb attacks, had both been critical hits. Nevertheless, much of the best work still came either from the US, or from France, where bandes dessin\u00e9es were \u2013 and are \u2013 such a big deal (the Angoul\u00eame international comics festival, attended by 200,000 people every year, has been running since 1974). Franklin\u2019s proposition was that the Observer New Review and Cape would work together to establish a competition to find new British talent. Not too long after this, having secured further support from Comica, the comics festival run by Paul Gravett, we began. It was clear immediately that our idea had worked: dozens of brilliant but hitherto unpublished cartoonists had been inspired to produce for our delectation some seriously good work (we usually receive around 250 entries). In the years since, we have discovered some remarkable talents, several of whom have gone on to secure publishing deals. Isabel Greenberg, Fumio Obata, Joff Winterhart\u2026 the list goes on (and two of the three I\u2019ve just mentioned were, incredibly, only runners-up). Which brings me to 2017. Our guest judges this year were Stephen The Gigantic Beard That Was Evil Collins, a former winner of the prize, and Philip Pullman, the acclaimed novelist (and the author of the comic book, The Adventures of John Blake). Heartfelt thanks to them both. As always, we read some great stories. In the end, though, it was If You\u2019re So Wise, How Come You\u2019re Dead? by Tor Freeman, a children\u2019s book illustrator, that stood out \u2013 because who doesn\u2019t remember, as a child, being nagged to do their piano practice/homework/revision? (Freeman\u2019s story, in which a portrait of Frida Kahlo and a bust of Beethoven have speaking roles, is \u2013 topically \u2013 about expertise and the effort it involves.) The 2017 runner-up is Emily Jones (pen name Emilybob), who works as a specialist teaching assistant in Cardiff, for her story Dennis and June, in which she ponders identity politics and the future of the planet to hilarious effect (in a world in which all humans are now vegans, here are cows that \u201csell themselves\u201d like prostitutes in teabag-strewn alleys to old people who still crave the taste of milk). Pleasingly, both women were inspired to enter by former prizewinners (Freeman is a fan of Alexis Deacon, and Jones of Stephen Collins). Both, too, hope to continue with comics in the future. \u201cI\u2019m elated,\u201d says Jones. \u201cSince I entered, I don\u2019t think a day has gone by without me dreaming about what it would be like even to be on the shortlist. To have complete strangers recognise your work is just incredible.\u201d \u2022 Read previous years\u2019 winning entries here Emily Haworth-Booth Haworth-Booth lives in London and won in 2013 with Colonic, which was about her having colonic irrigation. It was based on an extract from a diary that Haworth-Booth kept of her recovery from ME. What were you doing career-wise before you entered the competition? I was teaching comics and graphic novels at the Royal Drawing School. When I\u2019m encouraging students to make personal stories, to share things from their lives, I feel that I can say, \u201cWell, a very personal story about my colon was splashed all over the Observer, so you\u2019ve got no excuse not to have a go, at least\u201d. What effect did the competition have? I left my day job, though kept on teaching in the evenings, and went on to do an MA in children\u2019s book illustration. I also ended up doing comics workshops at St George\u2019s and UCL medical schools for patients and doctors. The projects were to do with public and patient engagement, and helping medical students to develop empathy. I think comics are a brilliant medium for that. Tell me about the graphic novel you\u2019re writing now. It\u2019s about ME and burnout and activism and climate change, and lots of stuff that doesn\u2019t sound very funny, though I\u2019m trying to make it funny. I\u2019ve been trying to find links between ME and climate change. They\u2019re both to do with unsustainable lifestyles and not listening, and being numb to what\u2019s going on in the world. I\u2019ve also just signed a three-picture book deal with Pavilion Children\u2019s Books. Which graphic novels have impressed you recently? I really love Judith Vanistendael \u2013 she\u2019s Flemish, and she does the most beautiful drawing, watercolours, and amazing storytelling. My favourite of her books is When David Lost His Voice, which is a book about cancer. It sounds depressing, but it\u2019s really uplifting and beautiful. There\u2019s a lot of interesting work by women coming out at the moment, and a lot of interesting work about medical experience, like Rachael Ball\u2019s The Inflatable Woman and Paula Knight\u2019s The Facts of Life. Has the perception of graphic novels changed since you won? I have noticed that a lot more women are signing up to my classes than when I first started teaching in 2010. I\u2019m not sure if that reflects a wider interest of women in the form in the UK in general \u2013 I hope it does. Things like Laydeez Do Comics, which is a great monthly event in London where artists discuss their work and present comics, have really helped get more women involved. And I have noticed in general that the graphic novel sections in bookshops have got much bigger. ED Alexis Deacon A children\u2019s author and illustrator, Deacon won in 2014 with The River which, he says, \u201cwas about three children playing on a riverbank. It had a 1920s vibe to it\u201d. He lives in London and since winning the competition has published two graphic novels. Had you done much comics writing before entering? No, my background was in children\u2019s picture book illustration. I had never written a graphic novel but I had done some three- or four-page comics before, so the format for the competition wasn\u2019t entirely new. When you won, did it have any tangible effect on your career? Since then I\u2019ve published two graphic novels \u2013 the second came out in September \u2013 so something must have gone right. They\u2019re part of a trilogy of connected books called Geis, about an evil sorceress who is trying to seize power in a small town. Is illustrating still what pays the bills? Yeah, it certainly pays more than comics, which have a very depressing hourly rate. I also teach in a few places, primarily Anglia Ruskin University, on their MA course in children\u2019s books and illustration. What keeps you doing it if the pay is so bad? Well\u2026 there\u2019s nothing quite like it. It\u2019s like being fully in control of your own film production. You\u2019re doing all the costumes, set design, script, lighting. You\u2019re seeing your thoughts made flesh. What have you enjoyed recently? I am addicted to a series called The Arab of the Future by Riad Sattouf. We have this fascination with the Arab world and its impact on our culture, but what makes The Arab of the Future interesting is the specific harmony involved and the constellation of characters that make up the family. It\u2019s really well written and observed. Do you think the graphic novel form is still in its infancy? It still has so much that could be done. There are countries that have really embraced it: France, Japan, America and Canada. The UK has only a few voices. I\u2019m sure there is a lot ahead. KF Julian Hanshaw An animator by training, Hanshaw won in 2008 with Sand Dunes &amp; Sonic Booms, which is set near to where he lives in Rye, East Sussex. It\u2019s a haunting seaside tale inspired by one of the coast\u2019s sound mirrors. He has since published three graphic novels. When did you become interested in comics? I got interested in the US underground stuff when I was at art school, stuff like The Fabulous Furry Freak Brothers. I went into animation for 13 years, then fell out of love with it and picked up comics so that I could become more of an auteur than a studio assistant. That was around 2007. Not long before the competition\u2026 It was a quick turnaround. I had been out to Vietnam and started my first graphic novel, The Art of Pho. After the award, I went back out to Vietnam to finish my book and repitch it to Jonathan Cape. The competition gave me a little ego-tickle, but it was still a number of years before Pho came out. I\u2019ve published two more books since then, including Tim Ginger, which was nominated for a British Comics award, and now I\u2019m working on my fourth book, Cloud Hotel, for Top Shelf. I also do lots of illustrations for the Pho restaurant chain \u2013 that\u2019s my bread and butter. So do the graphic novels feel like a labour of love? They do. If you work out your page rate against your advance, it sinks below the minimum wage at times. It really is a labour of love, unless you can sell those film rights or luck out with lots of translations. What keeps you going? I think the auteur nature of it, having total control of everything \u2013 I don\u2019t have producers and designers telling me what to do. And then you look around and, month after month, the bar is being raised and I want to be a part of that. KF Matthew Dooley Dooley won in 2016 with Colin Turnbull: A Tall Story, about a man who longs to win Lancashire\u2019s Tallest Milkman competition. A classics graduate who works for parliament\u2019s education service, Dooley has started his first graphic novel. Why did you decide to enter the competition? I remember seeing the winning entries the first year and thinking, Oh, I should do that. I don\u2019t have any formal art background and hadn\u2019t written a comic before. I entered a couple of times and heard nothing back, and then for two years on the trot I got down to the last eight, and then last year won it. It was a gradual improvement. What effect did it have on your career? Once I\u2019d won it, I thought I\u2019d take a punt and go part-time at work and see what happened. I work for the Houses of Parliament doing education stuff. We run tours and workshops for visiting school groups. I pitched an idea to Jonathan Cape and, excitingly, I\u2019m doing a book with them. It\u2019s a black comedy about two ice-cream men who are rivals and have a patch war. What is distinctive about the graphic story form? It rewards brevity and efficiency, and I like that. There\u2019s a cartoonist, Seth, who said that comics aren\u2019t literature plus art, they\u2019re graphic design plus poetry, and I think that\u2019s absolutely true. Which graphic novelists have impressed you recently? I really liked Hostage by Guy DeLisle. I genuinely was turning the pages quicker and quicker and quicker as it got continually more exciting. Aside from graphic novels, where else do you seek inspiration? I would say more than anything else it would be sitcoms. There is as much Father Ted in my comics as any other comic. I do try to make comics that are at least passably funny. What\u2019s your favourite graphic novel? Probably Tom Gauld\u2019s Goliath. I always like a clever retelling of a well-known story and this is as good as it gets. I particularly love the portrayal of Goliath as a reluctant soldier who is far happier doing admin. ED Isabel Greenberg Shortly after graduating from an illustration course at Brighton University, Greenberg won in 2011 with Love in a Very Cold Climate in which, she says, \u201ca man from the north pole travels to the south pole and falls in love with a woman there, but due to the world\u2019s magnetic field he can\u2019t touch her. So they are forced to always stay two feet apart from each other\u201d. Her bestselling debut graphic novel, The Encyclopedia of Early Earth, was published in 2013. She lives in London. You won in 2011, but it wasn\u2019t the first year you\u2019d entered the competition\u2026 No, I\u2019d entered twice before and had been a runner-up once. The year I won, I really thought about how you can tell a story in four pages. It\u2019s tough to achieve a satisfying plot arc and develop characters in such a short space. Had you always wanted to write graphic novels? Yes, but I didn\u2019t think it was a viable career. But the competition has been amazing for me \u2013 I got an agent and a graphic novel deal off the back of it. What\u2019s happened since you won? My first graphic novel, The Encyclopedia of Early Earth, came out in 2013. After that I started getting more work \u2013 I do quite a lot of children\u2019s illustration now. The second graphic novel, One Hundred Nights of Hero, came out last year. And I\u2019ve just started working on a new one. It\u2019s about childhood imaginary worlds. Since you won, have perceptions of graphic novels changed? The market has expanded, but it\u2019s still not treated with anywhere as much respect as novels are. Often it\u2019s treated like a genre rather than a medium \u2013 all graphic novels are bundled together as if they\u2019re the same thing, when in fact you\u2019ve got autobiography, history, crime and so on. It would help if schools had graphic novels on their curriculum, and literary prizes would feature them more often. I don\u2019t think they should be seen as just books with pictures. Do you read a lot of new graphic novels? I recently read the new Joff Winterhart book, Driving Short Distances. It\u2019s a really deadpan, tragic comedy, and very funny. I think my favourite of last year was Saving Grace by Grace Wilson \u2013 the story of an art school graduate trying to make it in London and survive the exorbitant rental market here, so obviously it spoke to me on some level! What\u2019s your favourite graphic novel? It\u2019s hard to pick a favourite. But one I\u2019m very keen on is Persepolis by Marjane Satrapi. It\u2019s a bit of an obvious choice, but one that\u2019s very important to me as it was one of the reasons I decided to make comics. KF Catherine Brighton Brighton won in 2007, the first year of the prize, with Away in a Manger, which she says is about \u201ctwo cheeky London girls who do something they shouldn\u2019t, which is go into an old gentleman\u2019s apartment\u201d. A former illustrator for newspapers and journals, and the author of several children\u2019s books, she lives in London and is working on her first full-length graphic novel. When you entered was it your first time writing a graphic story? I had done children\u2019s picture books before, and had just finished one on Buster Keaton, but I\u2019d never done a graphic novel or anything with bubbles coming out of people\u2019s mouths. I was ready to do something different. What effect did winning the competition have on your career? I already had an idea for a book, so I just kept going. I was a bit shocked when I saw how long ago your competition was, because I\u2019m still working on it! Can you tell me a bit about the book? It takes place in Dayton, Ohio, in 1903. It\u2019s about a kid whose new stepfather buys him a Brownie camera. He goes off round Dayton, taking sneaky pictures of people, and then he starts spying on a couple of men who live on the opposite side of his street. They\u2019ve got a great big work shed at the back, and it turns out that these are the Wright brothers, and they\u2019re inventing powered flight. I\u2019m enjoying it. What\u2019s your favourite graphic novel? Little Nemo 1905-1914 by Winsor McCay. He produced these virtuosic images once a week, playing with perspective, scale, architecture and rumbustious people and creatures. It\u2019s humiliating, it tempts me to give up. ED Richard Woods An early-age educator from Merseyside, Woods won in 2015 with The Giants of Football, which was inspired by Sepp Blatter, Fifa and \u201cthe farce of the World Cup going to Qatar\u201d. In his version of events, aliens are making a bid to host the World Cup. Had you written graphic stories before? I\u2019ve taught comics for over a decade at the local community college and I\u2019ve done lots of kids\u2019 workshops, lots of small-press stuff. But nothing on a grander scale. Did winning the prize open any doors for you? Lots of people got in touch and some small-press stuff I did 20 years ago is being resurrected. I\u2019m working on several books. They\u2019re all about monsters: one is based on Frankenstein, one\u2019s a zombie story, another is a retelling of Beauty and the Beast. I hope they\u2019ll be published some day but I\u2019m doing this because I want to do it. What appeals to you about comics? People compare comics to film storyboards, but they\u2019re completely different. Storyboards are a blueprint to which sound and motion are added. Comics have a different grammar. Absence is important: you can have an empty panel and people can read into it what they like. And you have the space between panels, which is where everything really happens \u2013 that\u2019s where the imagination takes over. Are comics in decent shape in 2017? Could be better. The audience is too narrow, it\u2019s too male, it\u2019s too much of a certain age. What\u2019s your favourite graphic novel? Two I\u2019m currently enamoured of are Monkey Subdues the White Bone Demon, beautifully drawn by Chao Hung-pen and Chien Hsiao-tai, and Moebius\u2019s elegant and understated Sur l\u2019Etoile. A perennial favourite though is The Six Voyages of Lone Sloane: Delirius; I\u2019ve never tired of it in 40 years. KF Corban Wilkin After studying illustration at Middlesex University, Wilkin won in 2012 with But I Can\u2019t, about two girls obsessed with alien abductions. He lives in London. What attracts you to the graphic story form? It all came from finding graphic novels in the library when I was a teenager and going: \u201cWow this is great, why haven\u2019t I heard about this before?\u201d It\u2019s hard to do something original in prose now, but with words and pictures and design elements, it felt like there were so many untapped possibilities. What effect did winning the prize have on your career? Since then I\u2019ve done a few science comics and I\u2019ve worked on a graphic novel with the writer Greg Neri that\u2019s on its way to being published. It\u2019s about a trainer in the American horse\u2011racing industry who kidnaps a horse to stop it from being raced to death and goes on the run, her and the horse. What was the main influence when you were starting out? Blankets by Craig Thompson was a pretty big one, because of the way it was drawn \u2013 it\u2019s more like painting than comics. I realised not all comics have to look like Batman, they can be more arty-farty. Another big influence was Understanding Comics by Scott McCloud. It breaks down the whole process, what comics are and how they work, and argues that they\u2019re actually a distinct and unique form of communication, not just writing with pictures, but a language in themselves. What\u2019s your favourite graphic novel? Building Stories by Chris Ware. There aren\u2019t many things I\u2019d call masterpieces, but that is. It follows the tenants in an old building in Chicago that\u2019s being converted into apartments, and in particular it follows one young woman throughout her whole life, jumping around in time, tracking major events but also insignificant ones. He sets the benchmark for what comics can do. KF Vivien McDermid McDermid\u2019s colourful story about coping with new motherhood, Paint, won in 2009. A semi-autobiographical tale, it was created in snatched moments when her baby was napping or at nursery. McDermid, a fashion design graduate, lives in Edinburgh. What drew you to the prize? I\u2019ve never been a huge comic buff, but I\u2019d been reading a bit of Joe Sacco, Chris Ware and Jon McNaught. McNaught has done a book called Dockwood \u2013 it\u2019s very quiet, very visual and I think I was drawn to his work because it isn\u2019t wordy. Then I just felt the need to tell a story. I\u2019d started writing it before I even knew about the prize, and then my dad sent me a cutting saying \u201cI just saw this in the Observer\u201d. It fitted perfectly with what I was doing. It was luck, really. Tell me about winning the competition. I was in shock! We\u2019d had quite a difficult few years with our first baby and the story came from that, from a very personal place, and I wasn\u2019t expecting it to be out there. But winning was very strengthening, and has become a kind of beacon for me to look back to if I\u2019m ever feeling wobbly about my work. What have you been doing since you won? Initially I spoke to Jonathan Cape about doing a graphic novel, but as it turns out, I just couldn\u2019t find the time, and I felt like I was trying to fit what I had into the format of a graphic novel. So, I put that on hold, then I was pregnant with my second child and the next wave of chaos came. Recently I\u2019ve been doing little paintings and working with clay at home, and bringing the children up. I also work at Garvald Edinburgh, an arts organisation for adults with learning disabilities. I love it. Have your kids seen your winning entry? My daughter is definitely aware of it \u2013 my sister has it framed in her kitchen. She kind of recognises that that was her, and I think that\u2019s really nice. IC Stephen Collins Collins, a freelance illustrator and cartoonist, won in 2010 with In Room 208, the tale of a couple whose honeymoon is cut short by bad weather. On winning the prize Collins said his aim had been to create \u201ca love story, but one that was ugly and a bit weird.\u201d He lives in Welwyn Garden City and published his first graphic novel, the New York Times bestseller The Gigantic Beard That Was Evil, in 2013. What do you remember about winning the prize? I started writing it on my honeymoon. We were camping in the French Alps and it was really raining. I remember thinking, what would it be like if we never got up? That was the germ of the story. I wrote the rhyming script in a launderette in our campsite. I didn\u2019t think it would win but it was a good challenge, and then it won, and it was brilliant. Was that your first attempt at a graphic story? I was an illustrator for seven years and I had done some cartoon strips for Prospect, but I\u2019d never really done much longer stuff. I was looking for a bit of a change. Did winning the competition have any effect on your career? Yeah, I got interest from Jonathan Cape. I submitted an idea for a longer story and that turned into a graphic novel, The Gigantic Beard That Was Evil. Also, the Guardian asked me to do a strip for Weekend magazine, and I\u2019ve been doing that ever since. So it had a lot of knock-ons. But one of the biggest was confidence. What are you working on now? My second graphic novel, which is taking a long time. It\u2019ll be published in 2019. It\u2019s quite an ambitious thing. It\u2019s going very well, but we\u2019ve had three children in the interim between my first and second graphic novel, which slows things down. What\u2019s your favourite graphic novel? I remember sitting on a train out of King\u2019s Cross in 2008, reading Jimmy Corrigan, the Smartest Kid on Earth by Chris Ware for the first time, knowing that this book was going to change my life. It\u2019s essentially a multigenerational tale of dads and lads, but it\u2019s so much more than that \u2013 it must be the Great American Graphic Novel. KF Tor Freeman This year\u2019s winner, with If You\u2019re So Wise, How Come You\u2019re Dead?, Freeman works as a children\u2019s book illustrator (The Toucan Brothers, Digby Dog Delivers). She graduated from Kingston University with an art degree in 1999 and lives in London. Have you always been into drawing comics? They\u2019re a fairly new thing for me: the last couple of years. I\u2019ve been making my own, printing them and trying to sell them at comics fairs. But it hasn\u2019t particularly gone anywhere until now. Who are the cartoonists and comic makers who have influenced you? When I was younger, I wanted to be a comic strip artist like Charles Schulz [Peanuts] or Bill Watterson [Calvin and Hobbes]. I love Pogo, by Walt Kelly, and [French cartoonist] Claire Bret\u00e9cher. I love the movement in her figures. I read those when I was too young to understand about the sex in them. What is it that appeals to you about the form of comics? It\u2019s weirdly hard to answer that question. I guess I\u2019d say, with picture books you have to be so selective about the moments you choose to illustrate, whereas in comics you can show such a variety of expressions and movements. I love the potential for comedy that provides. It\u2019s like being writer, director and actor of your own small films. What do you hope to do with comics in the future? I\u2019d just love to do more \u2013 and to have people read them. I feel like winning this prize really might help with that. I\u2019m so pleased. I didn\u2019t expect it at all. It sounds cheesy, but when I heard, it felt like a dream. RC Interviews by Killian Fox, Emily Dixon, Rachel Cooke and Imogen Carter"
"16||Silence of the Lambs review \u2013 ratcheting tension remasteredOfficially, the version of The Silence of the Lambs back in cinemas is a new 4K remaster, a tie-in with the BFI\u2019s annual, genre-specific touring programme. There are other reasons to revisit the 1991 film though: to reconsider it after director Jonathan Demme\u2019s death in April of this year (for my money, it\u2019s his best and most confident film), or as context for David Fincher\u2019s recent Netflix show Mindhunter, which also explores the idea of psychological profiling as a way to catch criminals. Not that one should need a special reason to watch a blockbuster horror-thriller as breath-quickening and elegantly crafted as this one. Jodie Foster is FBI trainee Clarice Starling; smart, tenacious, and trapped within a fragile female body that is mocked and degraded at every opportunity. Anthony Hopkins is Dr Hannibal Lecter; a seductive, eloquent cannibal in a maximum-security prison, with highfalutin tastes and a gift for reading people. Based on Thomas Harris\u2019s 1988 bestselling novel of the same name, it sees the odd couple working together to track down serial killer Buffalo Bill. One of Demme\u2019s great skills is his sense of balance; set pieces are alternately propelled by ratcheting tension and slow, mounting dread, while his exquisite match cuts between parallel storylines keep the pace nimble."
"15||Graphic short story: Dennis and June"
"16||A Bad Moms Christmas review \u2013 a sweet sequelA Bad Moms Christmas is neither about Christmas for Bad Moms, nor a Bad Christmas for Moms. It is simply about being a mum, at Christmas. \u201cWhy can\u2019t my husband buy his own mom a Christmas present?\u201d is this sweet sequel\u2019s thesis statement. Mila Kunis, Kristen Bell and Kathryn Hahn form a bawdy threesome; Christine Baranski, Cheryl Hines and Susan Sarandon their respective mothers. Baranski is too controlling (\u201cmoms don\u2019t enjoy, they bring joy\u201d), Hines too codependent and Sarandon like a teenager let loose, but their clashing personalities form part of the festivities."
"17||Impressionists in London; Monochrome: Painting in Black and White \u2013 reviewReader beware. Impressionists in London is a blatant misnomer. I have never seen a show with a more misleading title. Many of the works here are not by impressionists; some precede or postdate impressionism; still others are pedestrian or bafflingly irrelevant. London may be the defined location, with familiar views of Hyde Park, Piccadilly and Leicester Square throughout, but the art itself is all over the place. It opens with a thunderclap: Paris in the last days of the Commune and the Franco-Prussian war. Dor\u00e9 paints the scene in 1871 \u2013 starvation, blood in the snow, bodies heaped in alleys as the capital burns. Manet draws dead fighters in the boulevards. Tissot captures the casual execution of communards, tossed into death pits like dolls. It is from this horror that several French painters, notably Monet and Pissarro, escape to England. But the show doesn\u2019t go with them, at least not yet. It dwells on Corot\u2019s strange (and startlingly uncharacteristic) vision of Paris as a goddess rising from the flames; and on the destruction of the Vend\u00f4me Column, for which Courbet was unjustly blamed. It takes an interest in the new vogue for ruins tourism. My sense is that the curators might have preferred to dwell on these historic convulsions and their effect on French art. But alas they must drag themselves away to Sisley\u2019s stolid regattas at Hampton Court and Pissarro\u2019s early attempts at impressionism in suburban Norwood and Sydenham. Still they find ways to delay. A whole gallery is devoted to Tissot\u2019s high society scenes, which paid for a substantial residence in St John\u2019s Wood. I\u2019ve always thought Tissot might be underestimated. But this mini-retrospective shows him as glib and complacent, a weak draughtsman boosting his sitters with flash, superficial details. Another room is inexplicably devoted to Alphonse Legros, whose soup kitchen in the manner of Caravaggio\u2019s Supper at Emmaus is the absolute antithesis of impressionism. Beyond it, more unaccountable still, is a clutter of white marble busts by the second empire sculptor Carpeaux. It\u2019s true that all these artists visited London; true but insufficient. This show has nothing to say about the influence of Constable or Turner on 19th-century French art; of London fog; of the great thoroughfare of the Thames seen through smog or by moonlight (though three magnificent nocturnes by Whistler are included); nothing to reveal, in fact, about the city\u2019s place in the evolution of impressionism. But that was a false promise in the first place. For every scudding Pissarro there are two postcard scenes by Giuseppe de Nittis, showing sandwich-board men advertising cheap lunches in Trafalgar Square. For every transcendent Monet there are half a dozen hack depictions of open-top buses in London rain or smokers adding their own fumes to the rolling fog on Westminster Bridge. Halfway through, and still without a masterpiece in sight, visitors may be able to see a bottleneck developing some way in the distance. This will be the queue for the show\u2019s one unqualified triumph: nine of Monet\u2019s scenes of the Thames brought together from collections across the world in a single glowing gallery. This is the final \u2013 the only \u2013 climax. Here are the Houses of Parliament melting in the rays of a dying sun, or flaring up resurgent, blue and turquoise. Here is Charing Cross Bridge, stretching over gold and silver waters, and looking strangely similar to the bridge in Monet\u2019s garden at Giverny. London has become an apparition, out of focus, all its hard architectural surfaces now softened by light; the city as a grand if momentary hallucination. Of course it is still there, still visible, but less as a subject than as a theatre for Monet\u2019s impressionism \u2013 for the ever-changing performance of paint and light. Impressionists in London takes thrift to extremes, while counting on Monet (the show\u2019s poster-painter) for dependable profits. The better exhibits are mainly old favourites from British museums, specifically the National Gallery and Tate Britain itself; the worst are deservedly little-known. Though there are nearly 100 works on display, the pictorial outlay still feels small. With half the number of paintings, the National Gallery\u2019s Monochrome: Painting in Black and White is nonetheless wider and much more experimental. This is the first time one-colour painting has ever been the subject of a survey, and nor is that colour always black or grey. The first exhibit is a colossal depiction of the Agony in the Garden, with Judas hanging himself in despair in one corner, painted by a 16th-century Genoese artist in white on indigo-coloured cloth. This particular colour was invented in Genoa \u2013 or G\u00eanes, as it\u2019s known in French, hence \u201cjeans\u201d. Why paint in one colour? The images here offer many explanations. Perhaps it is to be grave, showing darkness visible, like Rembrandt, at the terrible moment of Christ\u2019s death; or to be melancholy, like the 19th-century French painter Eug\u00e8ne Carri\u00e8re, painting a mother nursing her suffering child in doleful sepia. Perhaps it is to project a sense of documentary truth, like Jan van Eyck depicting Saint Barbara appearing right now, as it seems, in some Belgian city; or its opposite, in the case of Gerhard Richter\u2019s blurred painting of a news photograph showing a woman and the fiance who will very soon murder her. How are we to know what will happen, or has already \u2013 the image, and its truths, are held beyond our grasp. Grey is the colour of indifference, according to Richter; yet not so for Giacometti. A portrait of his wife Annette, blade-thin and fragile, only just emerges from the viscous grey paint into which it simultaneously recedes. She is here and yet anxiously remote. D\u00fcrer draws a ghost figure out of white paint on grey, a woman seen from behind wearing a veil of stiff fabric, spectacularly registered in all its gauzy grain. Ghirlandaio makes a white figure emerge out of black gloom, as if showing the power of light to reveal the world. This could have been a dull show \u2013 literally colourless. And some themes are a little dry or academic, such as the use of monochrome paint to depict real or imaginary carvings in marble, or the impact of one-colour prints on the history of painting. There\u2019s a bit of cheating too \u2013 several black-and-white prints, photographs and drawings use up valuable wall space that could have been given to paintings instead. Why bother with a sea photograph from 1857, no matter how miraculous a feat in those slow-exposure days, when you can have a stupendously cold and lonely seascape in black and white by the Norwegian painter Peder Balke? Almost inevitably, the show grows more fascinating with modern times, when monochrome is no longer used for preparatory sketches or grisaille altarpieces, but for its own sake. From Josef Albers\u2019s geometric abstraction, where grey on grey nonetheless implies light at the end of the tunnel, to Frank Stella\u2019s terrific all-black maze conjuring the urban grime of Harlem, monochrome becomes lyrical, poetic. By now it is apparent that painting in a single colour may equally be emotional or religious, as likely philosophical as moral or atmospheric. In short, that one colour makes and means far more than itself. And the show closes with an immersive installation by Olafur Eliasson to illustrate the point. Powerful sulphur-coloured lights turn everything yellow, while rendering us black and white in the process. Yet we do not lose our infinite variety. Star ratings (out of 5) Impressionists in London \u2605\u2605 Monochrome \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 Impressionists in London is at Tate Britain, London, until 7 May Monochrome: Painting in Black and White is at the National Gallery, London, until 18 February"
"22||Shamir: Revelations review \u2013 bold, fleeting pop-rockLast spring\u2019s surprisingly lo-fi second album, Hope, found Las Vegas singer-songwriter Shamir Bailey pursuing a more serious sound. Where his 2015 debut Ratchet was all sugary electro bangers, his latest is minimalist, dissonant and raw. Stripped-down piano pop and romantic, Sixpence None the Richer-style guitars (sometimes quasi-country, at points almost grunge) underpin Shamir\u2019s disarming, glimmering falsetto and his endearingly theatrical conceits (\u201cI\u2019m too strong to just lay down and die,\u201d he sings on Blooming). A bold, fleeting pop-rock record whose standout element remains Bailey\u2019s gorgeous voice."
"16||Murder on the Orient Express review \u2013 delicious whodunnit funKenneth Branagh\u2019s film adaptation of Agatha Christie\u2019s 1934 novel is a juicy fruitcake of a film (or, perhaps more accurately, a Belgian iced bun: a nostalgic pleasure, goes down easy, irresistible on a Sunday afternoon). Everyone\u2019s favourite mustachioed detective, Hercule Poirot (Branagh himself), has decided to take a holiday to read Charles Dickens and enjoy three days on the Orient Express \u201cwithout care, concern or crime\u201d. But, as we know, no good deed goes unpunished, and a murder inevitably occurs on board. Poirot sets about solving the delicious, chewy whodunnit, each of the train\u2019s curio passengers a potential suspect. The ensemble cast comprises an enjoyable mix of actor\u2019s actors (the brilliant Olivia Colman), British institutions (Derek Jacobi, Judi Dench) and Hollywood movie stars (Johnny Depp, Willem Dafoe and Pen\u00e9lope Cruz), with Michelle Pfeiffer\u2019s kittenish widow and Star Wars heroine Daisy Ridley\u2019s fiery, principled governess the best of a very good bunch. The whole thing works especially well if you don\u2019t remember the book\u2019s original ending (or Sidney Lumet\u2019s 1974 film), though it\u2019s not exactly spoiled if you do. Written by Blade Runner: 2049 scribe Michael Green, it doesn\u2019t try (and so can\u2019t fail) to reinvent Christie, though it does update her slightly, keeping the opulent colonial trappings but having characters call out the period\u2019s racism. There\u2019s something endearing about the film\u2019s middlebrow purity (it\u2019s also a rare family-friendly 12A). It\u2019s classic Branagh: sweeping landscapes, thundering score, capital-A Acting, and, excitingly \u2013 at least for format nerds like me \u2013 it\u2019s shot on 65mm film. Large-format film allows for scope and scale, richness and colour, and a tactility reminiscent of the kind of British Raj films that Branagh is explicitly throwing back to. There\u2019s giddy drama, too, in knowing the Steadicam sequences were created manually rather than engineered digitally."
"13||Simone Lia on comics"
"3||Republicans accused of obstructing satellite research into climate changeThe Republican majority in the US Congress has been accused of deliberately obstructing research on global warming after it emerged that a critically important technique for investigating sea-ice cover at the poles faces being blocked. The row has erupted after a key polar satellite broke down a few days ago, leaving the US with only three ageing ones, each operating long past their shelf lives, to measure the Arctic\u2019s dwindling ice cap. Scientists say there is no chance a new one can now be launched until 2023 or later. None of the current satellites will still be in operation then. The crisis has been worsened because the US Congress this year insisted that a backup sea-ice probe had to be dismantled because it did not want to provide funds to keep it in storage. Congress is currently under the control of Republicans, who are antagonistic to climate science and the study of global warming. \u201cThis is like throwing away the medical records of a sick patient,\u201d said David Gallaher of the National Snow and Ice Data Center in Boulder, Colorado. \u201cOur world is ailing and we have apparently decided to undermine, quite deliberately, the effectiveness of the records on which its recovery might be based. It is criminal.\u201d The threat to the US sea-ice monitoring programme \u2013 which supplies data to scientists around the world \u2013 will trigger further accusations at this week\u2019s international climate talks in Bonn that the Trump administration is trying to block studies of global warming for ideological reasons. Earth\u2019s sea ice has shrunk dramatically \u2013 particularly in the Arctic \u2013 in recent years as rising emissions of greenhouse gases have warmed the planet. Satellites have been vital in assessing this loss, thanks mainly to America\u2019s Defence Meteorological Satellite Programme (DMSP), which has overseen the construction of eight F-series satellites that use microwaves sensors to monitor sea-ice coverage. These probes, which have lifespans of three to five years, have shown that millions of square kilometres of sea ice have disappeared from the Arctic over the past 20 years, allowing less solar energy to be reflected back into space \u2013 and so further increasing global temperatures \u2013 while also disrupting Inuit life and wildlife in the region. At present three ageing satellites \u2013 DMSP F16, F17 and F18 \u2013 remain in operation, though they are all beginning to drift out of their orbits over the poles. The latest satellite in the series, F19, began to suffer sensor malfunctions last year and finally broke down a few weeks ago. It should have been replaced with the F20 probe, which had already been built and was being kept in storage by the US Air Force. However it had to be destroyed, on the orders of the US Congress, on the grounds that its storage was too costly. Many scientists say this decision was made for purely ideological reasons. They also warn that many other projects for monitoring climate change, including several satellite missions, face similar threats from the Trump administration and Congress. Such losses have serious consequences, say researchers. \u201cSea-ice data provided by satellites is essential for initiating climate models and validating them,\u201d said Andrew Fleming of the British Antarctic Survey. \u201cWe will be very much the poorer without that information.\u201d The heading, standfirst and first paragraph of this article were amended on 8 November 2017 after an editing intervention erroneously accused President Donald Trump of obstructing satellite research into climate change. The Trump administration had nothing do with this as the decision was made by Congress in September, 2016."
"16||Thelma review \u2013 electric erotic thrillerThere\u2019s a scene in Norwegian director Joachim Trier\u2019s tense, slow-burning thriller that takes place in an opera house, with two girls sitting next to each other in a packed auditorium. The paranoid score swells, and one girl\u2019s hand slowly, deliberately begins to graze her friend\u2019s thigh. What begins as a tiny frisson blooms into something so fevered that the chandelier hanging above them begins to swing, Brian de Palma-style. As the erotic tension mounts, you can almost taste the electricity between them. The girls are students Thelma and Anja (Eili Harboe and Kaya Wilkins), studying at university in Oslo, new friends exploring the magnetic current that flows between them. But for the shy, devout Thelma, this overwhelming new connection is heavy with shame. And so she leaves, returning to her villainously smothering parents on Norway\u2019s snowy west coast. The teenage traps of repression and loneliness are explored here through genre \u2013 the spooky-movie sweet spot where body horror meets erotic thriller. The film parallels Thelma\u2019s sexual awakening with the onset of violent, paroxysmal attacks, seizures with no discernible cause. These fits suggest supernatural possession, female hysteria, or perhaps even telekinetic powers depending on how you want to read it, though Trier doubles down on biblical symbolism, interspersing the film with magical realist images of birds, snakes, silvery herrings and wriggling caterpillars that give the film a fairytale edge. In one maybe-real scene, Thelma is trapped beneath the surface of a swimming pool; in another a racy fantasy involves being choked by a snake while a hand slips into her underwear. Really, Thelma is a modern look at witchcraft, and an attempt to solve the mystery of whether she will choose to be a good witch or a bad one."
"22||James Holden and the Animal Spirits: The Animal Spirits review \u2013 a dizzying fusionInspired by Don Cherry and Pharoah Sanders\u2019s jazz-world fusion experiments with Moroccan gnawa music, former trance DJ Holden attempted his own crossover with Floating Points and former Sanders collaborator Mahmoud Guinia on the 2015 12-inch Marhaba. Forging those connections left him longing to play with a band of fellow explorers: hence new crew the Animal Spirits. The gnawa influence is strong in the dizzying build of Pass Through the Fire, but it\u2019s just one element in a giddy maelstrom of cosmic prog, krautrock, techno and psych-folk. Occasionally, as on, er, Thunder Moon Gathering, things get a little pastichey, but it\u2019s worth it for sublime moments like the title track, where lines between worlds and times blur."
"22||Canzoniere Grecanico Salentino: Canzoniere review \u2013 Puglian stars pack a punchThe champions of southern Italy\u2019s pizzica tradition have become an institution, though one that shows no signs of going stale. Leader Mauro Durante co-composed the material here with assorted New York tunesmiths, including producer Joe Mardin, who brings a polished but not over-glossed sound to the hand drums and vocal harmonies. Opener Quannu te Visciu turns a Puglian chant into near hip-hop, and the church-like voices are as likely to be denouncing corruption as praising sun, moon and sea. There is fierce fiddle, jaunty squeezebox and thunderous drumming, plus guest electric guitar from Justin Adams. As the tomato sauce cover suggests, a rich harvest."
"22||Pat Martino: Formidable review \u2013 a good session becomes something specialPat Martino has the not entirely helpful reputation of being a guitarists\u2019 guitarist, on account of his speed, accuracy and creamy-smooth tone. But along with these virtues comes a toughness and bite that derive from his early years in the funky organ combos of Jimmy McGriff, Jack McDuff et al. This album harks back somewhat to those days, with organist Pat Bianchi and drummer Carmen Intorre Jr driving the rhythm in classic style. Adam Niewood (tenor saxophone) and Alex Norris (trumpet) add some tasty solos too, but the poised and unflappable Martino still manages to dominate the proceedings, turning a good session into something a bit special."
"15||The Future Won\u2019t Be Long review \u2013 a deep dive into New York\u2019s 90s clublandSpare a thought for the parents. Any Bildungsroman worth its salt needs to hustle them off the scene before the Roman can get down to the business of Bildung and the opening sentence of The Future Won\u2019t Be Long manages to get the job done with startling efficiency: \u201cI moved to New York not long after my mother killed my father or was it my father who murdered my mother?\u201d Our narrator, who renames himself Baby after arriving in the big city, doesn\u2019t have much time for that David Copperfield kind of crap and when we later get a full account it turns out that this orphan\u2019s origin story isn\u2019t quite what we\u2019ve been led to believe. But this is New York in the late 80s and early 90s: a city of club kids, drag queens, artists and junkies; the urban laboratory where identities are being reinvented for the new millennium. You can\u2019t blame Baby if he takes a few liberties with his own narrative. Baby and his co-narrator Adeline will already be familiar voices to readers of Jarett Kobek\u2019s self-published cult hit I Hate the Internet (2016), to which this novel is a kind of prequel. Kobek\u2019s areas of interest in that novel \u2013 the corrosive effects of celebrity; the debasement of public discourse in a technologically mediated world \u2013 are also on display here, though the digital chatter of YouTube and Twitter is replaced by equally transformative (if less ubiquitous) social forums: the club circuit and the literary party. Baby\u2019s parents suffer the first violent death of many in Kobek\u2019s novel, which ends in the aftermath of the notorious clubland killing of Andre \u201cAngel\u201d Melendez by the club promoter Michael Alig and Robert Riggs in 1996. The fictional Baby hovers around these real characters and others, real and imagined, who haunt the landscape of a vanished New York. Hot literary property Bret Easton Ellis makes an early appearance and gets a dressing down (pre-American Psycho) for his \u201csqueamishness\u201d; a caricature Norman Mailer passes through, hitting on younger women and arguing about boxing; there\u2019s even glancing reference to Bucky Wunderlick, the (fictional) Dylanesque star of Don DeLillo\u2019s Great Jones Street. There\u2019s nothing new in the idea that New York is a city built as much in fiction as on reality and it comes as no surprise when Baby eventually leaves clubland behind to become a hot literary property in his own right. But Kobek never loses sight of the human cost of maintaining the image, keeping his awful tally of the dead (from drugs, from Aids, from violence) and throwing in his lot with the misfits, the club kids, the queers, the poor and the people of colour who make up the margins of the gentrifying city. The novel splits narratorial duties between Baby and Adeline, a west coast transplant who meanders through her art-school degree with a mix of weary cynicism and brittle affectation, sounding like a mixture of Holly Golightly and Courtney Love. She refers to herself as \u201cyours truly\u201d and uses words such as \u201ccopacetic\u201d, a mannerism that somehow manages to be endearing as well as irritating. The city takes its toll on her, too, though in a different way from Baby; you warm to them both even as they drift apart and their reunion at the end of the novel and the millennium marks a small victory amid the ruins. Their voices are convincing, though occasionally the mask slips, especially when Kobek indulges his penchant for cultural studies film commentary. (An excursus on Return of the Living Dead III, for instance, while geekily brilliant, rings false coming from the glacially cool Adeline.) But a few indulgences are a small price to pay for a novel that not only dissects with consummate skill the cultural life of fin-de-si\u00e8cle New York, but finds there the early symptoms of our contemporary malignancy. \u201cIt all comes back to clubland,\u201d as Baby points out. \u201cAmerica really is a club and everyone wants to be in the VIP room. Everyone wants to be fabulous.\u201d \u2022 The Future Won\u2019t Be Long by Jarett Kobek is published by Serpent\u2019s Tail (\u00a312.99). To order a copy for \u00a311.04 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"15||Fun Home creator Alison Bechdel on turning a tragic childhood into a hit musicalLast summer, Alison Bechdel returned to the small Pennsylvania town where she grew up (population: 700) to see a production of the musical based on her 2006 graphic memoir, Fun Home \u2013 a comic that, to sum it up rather brutally, tells the story of how her closeted gay father killed himself a few months after she came out as a lesbian. \u201cIt was super-surreal,\u201d she says. \u201cIt was the same theatre where my mother would do her amateur dramatics and my father was on the board. I was a little afraid. I felt anxious, like, oh my God, I\u2019m going to see all these people and they\u2019re going to be pissed off with me. Because there were people in my hometown who did not think Fun Home was a good thing. They thought it dishonoured my family.\u201d So how did it go? Even now, she sounds amazed. \u201cThere was this great warmth that I just hadn\u2019t expected. I had thought I was going back to 1977, but the place has changed. It has\u2026 evolved.\u201d Why she should find this surprising is slightly mysterious. Hasn\u2019t she evolved too, down the years? \u201cYes! Fun Home is a midlife document for me and I am trying to move on.\u201d She laughs. Still, the feeling persists that, just lately, she is living a life that is not quite her own. Before Fun Home, she had worked in relative obscurity; fame, let alone fortune, seemed unlikely ever to be on the cards. But with the book\u2019s acclaimed publication, its appearance on the New York Times bestseller list and then the musical, all that changed. People recognise her on the street now. Last month, she even had a cameo in an episode of The Simpsons (in \u201cSpringfield Splendor\u201d, Lisa Simpson writes a graphic memoir about her childhood called Sad Girl, which Marge illustrates; when the book is a hit, Bechdel, Roz Chast and Marjane Satrapi appear alongside them on a panel at a comics\u2019 convention). \u201cI could never have foreseen it,\u201d she says of the musical, which opened on Broadway in 2015 and went on to win five Tony awards (it will be staged at the Young Vic in June). \u201cI only agreed to the idea of it at all because I didn\u2019t know what I was getting into. It seemed harmless enough. I had turned down a movie on the grounds that if it wasn\u2019t good \u2013 and the chances of that being the case were very high, because most movies aren\u2019t good \u2013 it would be awful to have it out there in the world, this terrible version of my most intimate history. That was easy. But a musical? I was naive. I thought: if it\u2019s a bad musical, it will just disappear.\u201d She pauses. \u201cIt never occurred to me that it could be very bad and very successful. I didn\u2019t consider that. Anyway, it wasn\u2019t. Bad, I mean. So I\u2019m really glad I said yes. They [Lisa Kron, who wrote the book, and Jeanine Tesori, who wrote the music] made something beautiful out of it.\u201d So much time passed between her agreeing to the idea and it becoming a reality she\u2019d almost forgotten they were working on it at all. (In the interim, she had been awarded a $625,000 MacArthur Foundation \u201cgenius\u201d grant and had published a second memoir, Are You My Mother?) \u201cAfter a while \u2013 it had been years at this point \u2013 they sent me a script and a soundtrack. I was deeply moved. That first moment of hearing it: I just felt it was this great gift. I felt seen.\u201d As something of a connoisseur of therapy, she wonders if someone shouldn\u2019t develop a whole new branch of lyric-based treatment: \u201cI think there should be a kind of therapy where people hire playwrights and composers to make musical theatre of their sad childhoods.\u201d Do comics and musicals have something in common? It strikes me they can share a weirdly direct route to the human heart. \u201cYeah. I wonder if it is because of the way two registers collide. In a musical, you have drama and music. In comics, writing and pictures. They operate differently, but with the same power.\u201d Of course, loving what Kron and Tesori had done didn\u2019t make the prospect of the musical being staged any less fraught. Her mother, then still very much alive, was only just recovering from the publication of her daughter\u2019s memoirs (the subject of Are You My Mother? is Bechdel\u2019s difficult relationship with her). \u201cIt\u2019s kind of monstrous to do what I did, to expose your family like that,\u201d says Bechdel. \u201cBut my father was dead. My mother had to live with all her friends and even strangers knowing this intimate stuff about her life. She was a reticent person. She wasn\u2019t happy about it.\u201d But then her mother died, five months before the show opened. \u201cI have mixed feelings about that. I don\u2019t think she could have handled seeing it. That would have been too painful for her. There was a possibility she could have seen a workshop, but she would only do that if she could be the only person watching, so it never happened and perhaps that was meant. But I do kind of wish she\u2019d gotten to see the great reviews it had.\u201d In 2014, in an effort to process her feelings about the musical, Bechdel published a short strip in which she reveals how, thanks to a diary muddle, she missed its opening night off Broadway in 2013, finding herself instead in a hotel room in rural Ohio, where she spent her evening refreshing the New York Times theatre page until its review appeared. \u201cIt was a startling, unqualified rave,\u201d she writes in the final frame. \u201cMy parents, who had met in a play, would get to go on living in one.\u201d Has the musical changed how she feels about her memoir? No. It is life itself that has had most impact on that score. \u201cMy perspective on that story has changed,\u201d she says. \u201cI\u2019ve got so much more information now about my family and what happened. I\u2019ve got more pieces of the puzzle.\u201d But that isn\u2019t to suggest that she hankers to go back, to augment or edit what she set down then. \u201cIn some ways, it [the new information] would have made it a less interesting book. Not knowing everything is sometimes a good thing in a memoir: a mystery or quest is better than laying out all the facts.\u201d Does she still feel that writing it helped her psychologically? \u201cYes, I do, though when young people ask me if it was cathartic, and I say \u2018yes\u2019, they don\u2019t really know what I mean. They just want to go home and write their diaries and feel better themselves. I wrote diaries, too, for years. But I also did therapy for years. And I pushed myself to engage with my family in an honest way for years. And all that stuff was part of writing the book. I remember being so excited when I read about Virginia Woolf getting her mother out of her head by writing To the Lighthouse. I felt the same after Fun Home. I had been haunted by my father and I no longer was. I took him off my hard drive. He was using up all my RAM.\u201d Again, this isn\u2019t to say that she wishes Bruce Bechdel, with his temper and his obsessional interest in frilly 19th-century interiors, had been different (he died beneath the wheels of a truck in 1980, at the age of 44). \u201cSomeone once asked me: would you rather have had a happy childhood or to have written this book? And I didn\u2019t even have to think. I would take the book and with it my own bizarre way of relating to the world, a way that I learned from my moronic family. Of course I would!\u201d Ambivalence, as journalists have often pointed out, is Bechdel\u2019s default mode; when she draws herself, she often appears uncertain, a frown etched on her brow. But when she talks about the connection between her upbringing and her work, she sounds straightforward, enthusiastic, you might say. One thing her parents taught her, in all their unhappiness, was the importance of art in its widest sense and of not letting very much get in the way of one\u2019s pursuit of it (while her father, the great \u201cartificer\u201d, sublimated his desires, devoting himself instead to the restoration of the family\u2019s gothic revival mansion, her mother took refuge in music and amateur dramatics). Left to her own devices, Bechdel, in turn, is inclined to spend all day, every day, pencil in hand. She lives with her partner, Holly Rae Taylor, an artist and compost maven, in rural Vermont. \u201cI used to be here all the time except when I had traumatically to go out and do a book tour or speak at a university. But now that\u2019s completely reversed. The past four years have been crazy. I\u2019ve only been home for a month at a time and it\u2019s making me insane. I love a quiet life. I don\u2019t need a lot of social stimulation.\u201d She lifts up her computer, the better to show me her basement workroom (we are speaking on Skype). \u201cI live in the woods,\u201d she says. \u201cLook, can you see?\u201d The camera pans around: autumn foliage, drawing board, bookshelves, desk. \u201cI try to take Sundays off. That\u2019s a new development.\u201d What she says next is at odds with her smile, which is pretty wide. \u201cIt\u2019s my personal craziness,\u201d she tells me. \u201cI don\u2019t feel I deserve to exist unless I\u2019m working.\u201d Some see Fun Home as having been a turning point for graphic novels; following its success, they grew dramatically in popularity and began to be taken more seriously by the media. Bechdel, though, doesn\u2019t entirely buy this. \u201cIt\u2019s interesting that you think the terrain changed after it came out,\u201d she says. \u201cI feel like timing was a huge part of its success; if it had appeared a few years earlier, I don\u2019t think it would have gotten the purchase it did within the culture. I don\u2019t think people were ready to read that story before. Howard Cruse, who founded Gay Comix in the late 70s, was a huge mentor of mine. I always loved his work and his strip inspired Dykes to Watch Out For [which she wrote and published in the alternative press between 1983 and 2008]. In 1995, he brought out this beautiful book [Stuck Rubber Baby] about his life in the civil rights movement. He\u2019d devoted years of his life to it, but it didn\u2019t cross over. People weren\u2019t ready to identify with a gay hero. That changed in the next decade.\u201d But perhaps, too, her book had a particular appeal for mainstream critics. \u201cI was lucky to have regular critics review it [as opposed to comics specialists], which they did maybe because it had a literary strand.\u201d While some graphic novels falter when it comes to words \u2013 relatively few cartoonists are truly good writers \u2013 Bechdel\u2019s prose is richly precise; the New York Times reviewer admitted she had sent him to his dictionary to look up such words as \u201chumectant\u201d, \u201cscutwork\u201d and \u201cbuss\u201d. It also bulges with references to, among other writers, Proust, Joyce, Camus, Colette, Radclyffe Hall, Scott Fitzgerald, even Kate Millett, allusions that cleverly modulate its taboo-busting heart, its outstanding weirdness. (Bruce Bechdel, a high-school English teacher, was a part-time undertaker; the book\u2019s title refers to the family nickname for the funeral home he inherited from his father, an establishment whose viewing parlour Alison was sometimes required to vacuum). A decade on, it still feels pioneering, a comic that seeks determinedly to take the form in new directions. Bechdel, who was born in 1960, began drawing, as most of us do, as a child. But she kept going: even when she was little, she wanted to be a cartoonist (or a psychiatrist, jobs that, she once said, she had conflated thanks to all the analyst cartoons in the New Yorker). After Oberlin College in Ohio, where she studied art history as well as, among other subjects, German and Greek, she moved to New York, taking on the kind of boring jobs that allowed her to draw. Dykes to Watch Out For was born: a funny, knowing strip about a gang of more-or-less radical lesbians in which Bechdel appears as a character called Mo who resembles a guilty-looking teenager (and also Tintin). \u201cI spent a long time working very hard and making no money,\u201d she says. \u201cIt was increasingly disheartening. All the places that published my comic strip were disappearing. The gay bookstores were closing, the queer newspapers were folding. My income, which in my 30s had been almost enough to live on, was suddenly not quite enough for someone in their 40s. If Fun Home had not caught on, I would have had to stop and do something else.\u201d How daring did it feel to be working on Fun Home? The answer is: very. What a lot she hoped to achieve. \u201cLuckily, I had clarity about what I wanted to do and that carried me through the very reasonable doubts I also had. It helped me to overcome the feeling that this was outside my capability. It was such a huge project: six or seven years of drawing and excavating. It was sort of like living in a trance. I had to do everything I could to figure it all out.\u201d That she pulled it off, however, had little impact on her ability to repeat the trick. Are You My Mother?, which scrutinises her relationship with Helen, with help from the writing of Virginia Woolf and the psychoanalysts Alice Miller and Donald Winnicott, didn\u2019t appear until 2012; now she\u2019s running late with her new memoir, The Secret to Superhuman Strength. \u201cI was supposed to turn it in a year ago,\u201d she wails. \u201cI know it sounds diva-ish, but thanks to all the interruptions, I haven\u2019t been able to get into the deep state of concentration that I need to write and think clearly.\u201d What\u2019s it about? \u201cIt\u2019s about physical fitness and\u2026 mortality \u2013 and that\u2019s the hard part, the mortality. It\u2019s about what it\u2019s like to live in an ageing body, knowing you\u2019re going to die. The exercise part [Bechdel, who has a black belt in karate, has long been keen on fitness] is like the sugar to make the medicine go down, the medicine being all these big questions of life.\u201d She pulls a comically agonised face. If it\u2019s no use looking back, nor is it, you gather, particularly easy to move forward: \u201cI have to feel whatever I\u2019m doing is impossible, otherwise I will just not do it. That\u2019s what motivates me.\u201d The election of Donald Trump was at first totally immobilising \u2013 \u201cI felt so frivolous, writing a book about exercise\u201d \u2013 but she has since found \u201cthe political horror\u201d to be something of an engine. \u201cThe new book is about the self: I\u2019m only able to write about myself. But it is becoming increasingly vivid to me that we must live in connection with other people, so it will also ask how we save ourselves, how we might work together to stop vilifying others.\u201d Her wedding ring glints in the light (she and Holly were married in 2015). How precarious do certain human rights feel at the moment? \u201cYou know, I never thought I would see gay marriage. It wasn\u2019t particularly on my agenda as an activist, but when it happened, it felt like this tectonic shift. It was intoxicating. I\u2019m very pessimistic. I always think about Berlin before the war, the culture they had. Look what happened there. But I felt things really had changed enough that we couldn\u2019t go back. Now? I think they could go back. I think they are going back.\u201d Has the atmosphere near her changed? \u201cYes. I haven\u2019t personally encountered it. But it\u2019s happening. There have been so many political attacks on transgender people. I know a black professor at the university who got called a terrible name at the grocery store and that didn\u2019t happen five years ago. These forces are unleashed and I feel completely impotent and powerless and terrified.\u201d Thanks to Trump, too, her dykes have returned \u2013 though perhaps more in sadness than in triumph. \u201cThey\u2019re my own personal therapy for the administration,\u201d she says. \u201cWhen Obama arrived, I stopped. I thought, thank God, I can take a break from this. I\u2019m not a naturally political person. People would ask me: I wonder what your characters would think about this or that? And I was, like, I don\u2019t know and I don\u2019t care. I don\u2019t carry them with me in my head. But as soon as Trump was elected, they came back to me. They were always a way for me to make sense of the world; they would have slightly different political positions and arguments could be worked out. So now I\u2019ve done a few more.\u201d In the most recent, Mo tells her conservative brother, Scott, it\u2019s as though Breitbart broke his brain. \u201cYou poor little deep state dupe,\u201d he replies. It was in Dykes to Watch Out For, famously, that the rule that later became known as the Bechdel test first appeared in 1985, when one of her characters told another that she only goes to a movie if it has two women in it who talk to each other about something other than a man. (\u201cPretty strict,\u201d says the second woman. \u201cNo kidding,\u201d says the first. \u201cThe last movie I was able to see was Alien\u2026 \u201d) Bechdel, somewhat nonchalantly, has always insisted that it was the idea of her friend, Liz Wallace, and that she herself doesn\u2019t even care about movies. But today, she sounds wholehearted in her enthusiasm. The test featured in The Simpsons episode, which got her \u201cexcited\u201d about it all over again. \u201cIt is a wonderful thing,\u201d she says. \u201cI\u2019m very happy my name is associated with it. The culture needs it right now.\u201d We talk about Harvey Weinstein, and she shudders. Before our conversation ends, she tells me which comics she has enjoyed recently. \u201cWell, Hostage [Guy Delisle\u2019s account of the kidnapping of a French aid worker in Chechnya] was amazing,\u201d she says. She thinks for a moment, and then \u2013 \u201cWait! I\u2019ve got to look\u201d \u2013 leaps up. When she returns she\u2019s bearing Tenements, Towers and Trash, Julia Wertz\u2019s alternative graphic architectural history of New York. \u201cNow this is really ambitious,\u201d she says, turning its pages. Ultimately, though, what she still loves to read most of all is autobiography. Narcissism, that comic drama in which every one of us has a leading role, is both her great subject and, you might say, her hobby. Down and down she digs, deep into herself, after which, by way of a break, she likes to ponder the excavations of others in all their ineffably touching and ridiculous glory."
"15||On my radar: Chris Ware\u2019s cultural highlightsBorn in Omaha, Nebraska, in 1967, Chris Ware started doing comic strips when he was studying at the University of Texas in Austin, where he was invited by fellow cartoonist Art Spiegelman to contribute to anthology magazine Raw. A regular contributor of covers and cartoons to the New Yorker, since 1993 Ware has also been publishing the Acme Novelty Library comic book series, which included a serialisation of Jimmy Corrigan, the Smartest Kid on Earth. In 2000 he turned the strip into an acclaimed graphic novel, which won the 2001 Guardian first book award. In 2012 Ware published the box set Building Stories, a project a decade in the making consisting of 14 different books and booklets. His latest book, Monograph (Rizzoli \u00a345), is out now. 1 | Music Sleep by Max Richter Though Richter claims he wants us to listen to his eight-hour work while asleep, I\u2019ve been listening to its melting chords for the past year while very much awake, and it\u2019s the only music I know that may capture the sensation of death: that ultimate, freeing apathy towards all things worldly, personal and meaningful \u2013 making it among the most personal and meaningful pieces I\u2019ve ever heard. I would love to see it performed live before I die. 2 | Drawing David Plunkert\u2019s New Yorker covers The newest artist to grace the only periodical remaining that still allows a drawing to be a drawing, David Plunkert\u2019s covers are the best of the year so far, from his personalised bullets in the wake of Las Vegas to his genius perpetual motion-machine take on Charlottesville. Plunkert\u2019s images start their engines and run smoothly, propelling one into a mental landscape that gets more tangled and complex the longer one looks. If he keeps this up, he\u2019ll be our new Saul Steinberg. 3 | Film Downsizing (director/writer Alexander Payne and co-writer Jim Taylor, 2017) Election, About Schmidt and Sideways are three of my favourite films, and Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor are reunited in a strafing satire on American excess, gluttony and class as told through the simple science-fictional tweak of shrinking oneself so drastically that worldly wealth becomes relatively so much more. The trailer features Matt Damon in gags as genius as giant wedding rings being moved into miniature McMansions and the signing of legal documents the size of tennis courts. That the film opens at Christmas and the trailer was released on 11 September proves these great, accessible and unpretentious film-makers aren\u2019t missing even the tiniest detail of our hugely failing American experiment. 4 | Graphic novel Sabrina by Nick Drnaso My own profession currently seems divided between comics fiction and comics memoir, the former more or less growing out of the childish fantasies now grotesquely metastasised as \u201csuperhero stories for adults\u201d \u2014 which makes about as much sense to me as writing pornography for children. Some middle-aged colleagues and I believe literary comics fiction is possible without resorting to fantastical heroics, however, and the youngest and finest exemplar, 28-year-old Nick Drnaso, offers a new book next year to possibly top us all: Sabrina, about a missing woman, a video and the unspeakable possibilities of our contemporary mitigated reality. (After I recommended his first, Beverly, to Zadie Smith, she wrote back a one-word review: \u201cwow,\u201d and she\u2019s just called Sabrina \u201cthe best book \u2013 in any medium \u2013 I have read about our current moment\u201d.) I have no doubt that if Nick keeps it up, he will do things on paper that no other human has yet imagined (he basically already is), and that\u2019s the best kind of heroism imaginable. 5 | Graphic memoir Whatsa Paintoonist? by Jerry Moriarty Following the incandescent example of Art Spiegelman\u2019s Maus, the graphic memoir is easily the most visibly mature category of comics, from Marjane Satrapi\u2019s Persepolis to Alison Bechdel\u2019s Fun Home to Roz Chast\u2019s Can\u2019t We Talk About Something More Pleasant? \u2013 all books that dignify the genre with sophisticated human stories of, well, real life. Whatsa Paintoonist? by 79-year-old Jerry Moriarty reinvents the memoir as an ineffable, shimmering picture-poem of earth-shedding memory, discarding the black brushstrokes of his groundbreaking Jack Survives for a luminous rainbow of tentative pencil and brush attempts at putting his affairs in order through the mnemonics of his childhood home and family. That he recently purchased and moved back into this same house makes the reading of this book all the more heart-opening and life-affirming, to say nothing of profoundly moving. (I cried.) 6 | Exhibition Kerry James Marshall: Mastry Though the exhibition has ended, the catalogue for Chicago painter Kerry James Marshall\u2019s tour of African American life and consciousness is still gettable, and it should be got. Walking through the exhibit with the crowds during its closing week, my experience as a white viewer versus African American viewers must have been as opposing as Marshall\u2019s approach to portraiture is to its history, western art\u2019s \u201cglowing skin\u201d inverted as a pool of empathetic darkness into which the viewer falls. Connecting to the tendons of the deepest recesses of American identity, Marshall\u2019s beautiful paintings are a humblingly generous artistic gesture, especially now. (And that he\u2019s been working on a lengthy comic strip, Rythm Mastr, since 2000 is a fact not lost on this cartoonist.) 7 | Television Full Steam Ahead I am proud to say my family\u2019s favourite television programmes are the BBC\u2019s Farm [historical docudrama] series, my daughter Clara naming presenter Ruth Goodman \u201cone of her favourite people on planet Earth\u201d. From 2005\u2019s Tales from the Green Valley, set in the 1620s, to its newest, Full Steam Ahead, an examination of the effect of rail travel on the economy, industry and \u2013 most importantly \u2013 British daily life, I\u2019ve had every DVD and book airmailed to our house, watching the boys and Ruth try to live under historical technological and agricultural limits with an infectious affection for their experiment and each other that is mind-sharpening and life-affirming. The hosts are unpatronisingly civil and ultimately get at that most Tolstoyan of ends: namely, what does it feel like \u2014 and mean \u2014 simply to be alive?"
"2||Courtney Lawes cracks on to face Argentina after ego-free Wales wrestleEngland face Argentina for the fourth time in a year on Saturday but the Twickenham game will be the last meeting between the sides until they face each other in Tokyo in the 2019 World Cup. Eddie Jones\u2019s side have won the last three encounters despite first playing a man short for all but the first four minutes at Twickenham a year ago when Elliot Daly was sent off for a dangerous tackle and then in the summer winning both Tests despite being without a team of players who were with the Lions in New Zealand. Courtney Lawes says: \u201cWe have limited time together between now and the next World Cup and we need to make every minute count. We know it\u2019s on the way and Eddie Jones has planned everything out. It all leads to the World Cup but, while we are counting down the games, we are not looking past the next one, which is against Argentina.\u201d Lawes readily acknowledges England did not do very well at the 2015 World Cup, \u201cbut that is a long time ago\u201d. \u201cWe are focused on not wasting the opportunity we have in two years. We have the players, the coaches and the staff; we have the right mentality and attitude to win it. We have to make sure that we knuckle down so that, when we get there, we can get really excited and tackle it head on.\u201d England spent last week training in the warm in Portugal, enjoying lineout sessions on the beach. In typical Jones fashion the setting may have been a resort but it was no holiday for players who have been promised shock therapy in the buildup to the World Cup. \u201cWe were up at 5.30am with the first session at 6am,\u201d says Lawes. \u201cWe were wrestling by 6.30. A mixed martial artist named Dean taught us some stuff that related to rugby and it always ended up with wrestling. I don\u2019t think anyone is technically that good but we are all pretty strong. It was challenging but fun.\u201d England have a grappling contest of a different kind on Monday when they meet the Wales forwards in Bristol for a series of scrums and lineouts that will be overseen by the referee Nigel Owens. \u201cIt will be interesting,\u201d says Lawes. \u201cIt is a good idea but we have to make sure that our egos do not get in the way. We are rivals but we are playing them next year in the Six Nations, not now. It will be full\u2011on; it always is when we have teams to play against in training. It is a bigger version of that. I know a few of their boys from the Lions and hope that we all get something from it.\u201d Lawes has achieved consistency under Jones and pushed hard for a starting place in the Lions Test side. But the Australian made sure his charge went into the autumn series without a trace of complacency by saying the forward could have done better for Northampton last month. \u201cThe biggest thing for me has been staying fit,\u201d says Lawes. \u201cOn top of that my work ethic, in the gym and on the training pitch, has been way higher than in previous years. It has meant I have been able to do things I always knew I could but never managed to. I am older now and, where in the past shoulder problems got on top of me, my muscles seem to have matured. \u201cI enjoyed the Lions tour a lot and liked seeing what the other players were about from different nations. I know I have a lot to do with England in terms of getting in the team and I can also learn a lot from the guys around me here. Perhaps my energy has dropped in terms of collisions and I need to get back on the wagon but I feel my performances have been strong. I was ill with a virus for a couple of weeks but I feel fresh now. \u201cI have had a long couple of seasons and it might have been exhaustion. I did not feel that good on the pitch for a couple of weeks but I\u2019ll crack on.\u201d Lawes is competing for a place in the second row with fellow Lions Maro Itoje and George Kruis as well as Joe Launchbury, probably the player unluckiest to miss out on the trip to New Zealand, and Bath\u2019s Charlie Ewels. Lawes played in the back row in the Six Nations although Itoje wore No6. \u201cI have been spoken of as a second-row for now,\u201d says Lawes. \u201cBecause there are so many good locks we are spilling out into the back row. Even Launchers could play at 6: we could have a very big team.\u201d"
"22||Billy Bragg: Bridges Not Walls review \u2013 rousing and nuancedPolitical turmoil has regalvanised Billy Bragg: a string of recent singles addressing Trump (the rousing Why We Build the Wall), climate change and racists on the streets of Birmingham have been his first new solo releases since 2013. This mini-album collects them and adds two extra songs. Not Everything That Counts Can Be Counted is a finely judged attack on Brexiters\u2019 lies and their hidden agenda, while the mournful piano ballad Full English Brexit finds Bragg looking through the eyes of an elderly Leave voter. It might seem an easy target, and is a deliberately uncomfortable listen, but Bragg offers a nuanced, sympathetic portrait, with the key lyric being \u201cnobody\u2019s listening to me\u201d."
"22||Omar Souleyman: To Syria, With Love review \u2013 relentless, tiring beatsLike much of Mad Decent\u2019s output, any two minutes of To Syria, With Love sampled at random sound fantastic \u2013 an aural peephole into the most exciting party on the planet. However, a mountain range would never be beautiful if it consisted entirely of peaks, and the same is true of Syrian folk-techno albums. The unrelenting tail-thump beat flattens an initial dynamism into a tiring, trebly melange, and Omar Souleyman\u2019s emotional voice begins to hector rather than implore. The impassioned ballad Mawal stands out as a contemplative reprieve, but it isn\u2019t anywhere near enough to rescue the album."
"26||How not to turn child abuse into a gameTo what extent might a semi-autonomous robot maid be able to intervene in domestic abuse cases of the future? The question underpins Detroit: Become Human, a forthcoming PlayStation game directed by the French game maker David Cage. Last week, during a press event held in Paris, Cage showed footage of the game, due for release next spring, in which Kara, an android housekeeper, bears witness to an American father\u2019s psychological and physical abuse of his daughter. \u201cWhat are you looking at?\u201d the man demands over a fraught dinner, as the girl, Alice, winces. Players, it seems, are able to make intermittent choices to direct the drama, nudging Kara to stand up for Alice or, alternatively, maintain an impartial, subservient distance. In the three-minute trailer the stakes are bluntly ratcheted: her abusive father, it seems, will murder Alice, unless you choose to take her place. Cage, in an interview with Eurogamer after the trailer\u2019s reveal, was defensive of the game\u2019s subject matter. When challenged about the trailer\u2019s grim brutality he asked: \u201cWould you ask this question to a film director, or to a writer? Would you?\u201d Cage\u2019s retort is rooted in the longstanding insecurity of game makers and players alike, that video games are a lesser medium for creative expression, one that lacks the gravity to address taboos. (Cage\u2019s response is related, too, to his obvious cinematic aspirations: his previous game, Beyond: Two Souls, centred on a digitised performance by the Hollywood actor Ellen Page.) But any independent interviewer would question an author or film director on their handling of sensitive material, especially if, as in Cage\u2019s case, there had been a yawning gap between their previous work\u2019s ambition and achievement. (Cage\u2019s early game Fahrenheit features a sex scene involving a woman and her zombified boyfriend, and ends in a showdown with the personification of the internet.) The implication that Cage, as a video game creator, is being held to a higher standard than his cinematic or literary counterparts would seem somewhat disingenuous. And yet there is something distinct about games that makes this subject matter potentially more perilous for the medium\u2019s writers and designers. Video games typically offer players agency \u2013 the opportunity to make choices that redirect the story or at least nudge the plot into alternative parabolas. The trailer makes it clear that Detroit: Become Human is a game steered by player choices, a kind of hyper-evolved version of the Choose-Your-Own-Adventure books from the 1980s, where readers would, at the end of each plot beat, make a dramatic choice and turn to the indicated page to see how the choice played out. When these game mechanics are married with the theme of domestic abuse and, in particular, child abuse, the obvious implication is that, to escape the violence a victim, or those around them, need only make the \u201ccorrect\u201d choices to resolve the situation. It\u2019s a deeply troubling misrepresentation of the reality for anyone who has suffered from, or who knows a survivor of, domestic abuse. Cage\u2019s success or failure in overcoming these problems will only be revealed next year. \u201cI think people should see the scene, play the game and see it in context to really understand it,\u201d said Cage to those who objected to the trailer. Complaining that critics have taken the scene out of context, when a trailer by definition removes a scene from its context, is a flimsy defence indeed."
"22||Qty: Qty review \u2013 cliche-swerving New York rockYou almost pity anyone starting a band in New York. But the city\u2019s history is more of an asset than a burden to Qty, an intriguing duo on their debut album who expand to a foursome live. On songs such as Michael, singing guitarist Dan Lardner channels all his deadpan heroes \u2013 Lou Reed, Julian Casablancas \u2013 while lead guitarist and backing vocalist Alex Niemetz provides just-so solos. If you\u2019re going to be this derivative, you\u2019d better be good. Fortunately the pair\u2019s observations swerve most cliches, and their sneery city sounds are tempered by indie-leaning boy-girl vocals. \u201cI want salvation/ Just without any of that God shit,\u201d they croon almost sweetly on Salvation."
"15||Syrian graphic novelist Hamid Sulaiman: \u2018I don't present villains or heroes\u2019Hamid Sulaiman was born in Damascus in 1986 to a middle-class family and studied architecture before the civil war began in 2011. Having fled the country for Egypt, then Paris, he began working on his first graphic novel, Freedom Hospital, which was published in France last year and has just been translated into English. Strikingly drawn in black and white, it centres on a clandestine hospital set up by a young woman, Yasmin, in the early days of the Arab spring and tells the story of the doctors, patients and revolutionaries who shelter there. Sulaiman now lives in Berlin and is finishing his second book. How long did you stay in Syria after the conflict began? Six months. I was one of the young guys who had a lot of hopes for the Arab spring. And even though a lot of people don\u2019t believe in it any more, even though the reality is really shocking, I still hold on to this dream. What is your dream? Freedom, peace. I still feel optimistic, despite all the chaos. At the beginning of the Arab spring, people thought totalitarian regimes would just disappear and we would have democracy. Everyone, including the western media, was naive about this. But I think we\u2019re witnessing the final chapter for military dictatorships all over the world \u2013 it\u2019s getting written bloodily, with a lot of conflicts, but it\u2019s coming to an end. What compelled you to leave Syria? I participated in the movement, I was in prison three times \u2013 for a night, two nights, a week. Then I was summoned to court to be judged for helping terrorists, so I had to flee. Was it a hard decision? It was only after I arrived in Egypt that I fully realised, \u201cOh fuck, I am out already.\u201d Writing Freedom Hospital was a way of imagining where I would be if I had stayed. There is always this question: should I stay, should I leave, what are the dangers? If you believe in something this much, should you leave it? Each scene in the book is a reaction to that question. For example, I drew footage from YouTube. This is because I was outside Syria watching footage of shelling and bombing in neighbourhoods where I had friends I couldn\u2019t contact. Houria, the fictional town where Freedom Hospital takes place, feels like a microcosm for Syria: it contains idealists and freedom fighters, Assad loyalists and members of Isis. Were you trying to encapsulate the entire conflict in the book? I was more trying to understand things for myself. When you are inside the conflict, you can\u2019t understand other perspectives. It\u2019s like a football player: he\u2019s on the green square, he doesn\u2019t think of what\u2019s going on, he\u2019s just performing. It\u2019s only after the match is over that he can realise what\u2019s been happening. But distance doesn\u2019t always help. For the rest of the world, the conflict in Syria can seem incredibly confusing. Even in Syria, it\u2019s confusing. Each district has a different situation: in one street people are starving to death, in the next people are staying in five-star hotels. I didn\u2019t want to be objective, I just wanted to understand, to speak the tongue of the other. Why this person would believe in this, and why violence is the only tool of communication you have. This is why I didn\u2019t present villains or heroes in the book. The guys of the Islamic State, for example, are just following their circumstances. Can you genuinely empathise with members of Isis? Certainly. They are victims. All soldiers who are participating in this war are victims. I am privileged: I studied, I speak languages, I could find my way out. The middle class is a minority in my country; most Syrians didn\u2019t have access to school. Now the only work they can do is war. When the only people who will defend you and give you money are extremist groups, it\u2019s normal to end up with them. These are circumstances that the whole world is responsible for, actually. The book is dedicated to your friend Hussam Khayat, who was tortured to death in prison by the Syrian secret police. Could you tell me about him? He was my closest friend in Syria from 2005 until my last days there. Even after I left Syria I was talking to him on Skype. He was looking forward to reading my book so much. He was a dreamer too: never down, always up. In 2014, he was finishing his studies and had one class left before he could graduate and leave the country. Then he was arrested and a week later they called his mother to collect the body. Do you still have friends and relatives in Syria? Fewer and fewer. The guys who stay there, the regime considers that they should be doing their patriotic duty to defend the regime, and the Islamists say they should do their duty to defend Allah, so they\u2019re targeted by everybody. A friend of mine who visited Damascus recently said that the only guys you see in the street are soldiers. How carefully do you monitor what\u2019s going on? Are you watching the news every day? It depends. Recently less and less. It\u2019s the same news, the same misery. I don\u2019t enjoy watching all the horrors coming out of Syria. Like any Syrian, I am suffering trauma from all this huge violence. Writing this book and doing what I do is my way of treating it. Why did you choose the graphic novel form? First of all, there\u2019s an economical advantage: you can tell a story by yourself without the huge production team you\u2019d need to make an animation. Also, I find that this medium is a good way of meeting other cultures and communicating experiences, especially in tough situations that are difficult to access. If the war ended in Syria, would you want to move back? Or do you feel at home now in Europe? I would like to go back when there is peace, certainly. When you lose your home you can never feel at home again. Still, I was educated in a European way so I don\u2019t suffer being here at all. In fact it\u2019s maybe easier for me to live in Europe than in a conservative society. My motive for participating in the Arab spring was because I felt exiled in my own country \u2013 a patriarchal society with religious institutions and a secret police system that go really deep into each citizen\u2019s life. You live in Berlin now. What brought you there? I loved Paris, but most of my friends from Damascus were moving to Berlin. A lot of Syrian restaurants and shops and events are in Berlin. As a city it is really dynamic and modern. I go a lot to the theatre, to see bands. I play a lot of basketball. What is your second book about? It\u2019s about the 1982 massacre in Hama [where the Syrian government cracked down on a Muslim Brotherhood uprising, killing more than 20,000 people]. There are lots of similarities between that and what\u2019s going on now \u2013 a lot of the same people are involved, on both sides. At the same time, I\u2019m talking about being an artist haunted by the ghosts of the war. It\u2019s due out in France in March and we\u2019re looking at dates for Germany now. Have you finished writing it? Don\u2019t tell my editor, but not yet. I\u2019m procrastinating, playing basketball. This is how my writing gets done. I work better under pressure. \u2022 Freedom Hospital by Hamid Sulaiman is published by Jonathan Cape (\u00a316.99). To order a copy for \u00a314.44 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"15||Graphic short story: If You\u2019re So Wise, How Come You\u2019re Dead?"
"23||Romantics Anonymous review \u2013 Emma Rice\u2019s bittersweet farewellEmma Rice ends at the Globe as she began. Saucily. With a mix of old and new, borrowed and blue. Romantics Anonymous, her final production as artistic director may be based on a 2010 French-Belgian movie, but it is entirely new as a stage work, and is the first musical to be put on in the ever-glowing Sam Wanamaker Playhouse. The story of a \u201cchocolate savant\u201d, an inspired confectioner who sets out to \u201cbreak the mould\u201d of a traditional chocolate firm, owned by the man she loves, may come on beaming and winsome, but it contains more than a nod to Rice\u2019s tussles while breaking with established practices at the Globe. It is full of larks: handlebar moustaches twitch beneath berets; neon signs light up at the click of fingers; lovers are hoisted high above the stage, gleefully somersaulting, in a tribute to one of Rice\u2019s earlier romantic shows, The Flying Lovers of Vitebsk. Yet, like the fairytales that Rice loves, Romantics Anonymous is veined with sadness and difficulties. After all, as the heroine points out, chocolate is not simply sweet; what makes it so special is the ripple of bitterness beneath the surface. Michael Kooman\u2019s music and Christopher Dimond\u2019s lyrics banter and scamper and dip into melancholy. There are echoes of Satie and of honky-tonk, wheezes (not too many) on the accordion, swoops of woodwind and a few teases: \u201cOne rule we must enforce/ Don\u2019t think about sexual intercourse.\u201d Among a nimbly multitasking cast, Joanna Riding is outstanding as she turns from grumping to vamping. First a hairnetted overseer, later a blowsy, embarrassing mother in ooh-la-la leopard-skin stilettos and black bra. Rice\u2019s shows have always welcomed the odd and awkward as well as the chic and sexy. A touching comic scene features a support group for the socially ill-at-ease \u2013 the \u201cromantics anonymous\u201d \u2013 mumbling intelligently in bobble hats and over-large sweaters. Hero and heroine are not just inhibited but poleaxed by shyness. As the lovesick hero, Dominic Marsh \u2013 jumpy and appealing as a young rabbit \u2013 is so drenched with nervous sweat on a date that he keeps going into a restaurant lav to change his shirt. Carly Bawden \u2013 one of musical theatre\u2019s lovely lights \u2013 reads her dining companion questions from index cards, and swoons when anyone looks at her. That is not what you expect from a sweet-singing heroine. Emma Rice does not give us the expected. In letting her go, the Globe has lost a generous spirit. \u2022 Romantics Anonymous is at the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse, London, until 6 January"
"16||DVD reviews: Your Name, Despicable Me 3, Whisky Galore! and moreThe internet recently freaked out, as the internet is wont to do, over the news that US blockbuster machine JJ Abrams is developing a live-action remake of anime teen fantasia Your Name (Anime Ltd, 12) \u2013 at last out on Blu-ray and DVD after a year-long wait. You can understand both the defensiveness of fans of the original and the covetousness of Abrams. Makoto Shinkai\u2019s whirling, way-out body-swap romance takes the high-concept premise of a Hollywood exec\u2019s dreams into far dizzier, less disciplined realms of the subconscious. It\u2019s hard to imagine any big studio-vetted remake meeting its irresistible invention even halfway. Initially, it\u2019s all romping, gender-curious high jinks, as rural schoolgirl Mitsuha and urban male teenager Taki magically switch vessels, but all hell (not to mention the heavens) breaks loose in a second half that recklessly bends time, space and the environment, without drowning the film\u2019s gentle, coming-of-age concerns. You can see here where Abrams\u2019s multimillion-dollar digital effects will kick in, but there\u2019s no guarantee Shinkai\u2019s airborne poetry will make the transition. Discover it while it\u2019s still in uninhibited, drawn form. Hell, try it out on your more adventurous kids, who deserve bigger cartoon ideas than those slopped up by Despicable Me 3 (Universal, U), another predictably bouncy runaround in bright butter-yellow. There are more wild ideas \u2013 not animated this time, though mightily exuberant \u2013 in Jo\u00e3o Pedro Rodrigues\u2019s queer brain-swirler The Ornithologist (Matchbox, 15), a loose-limbed interpretation of the legend of St Anthony of Padua that remains pleasurable even (perhaps especially) when it\u2019s frankly inexplicable. It follows the wayward, erotically charged trail of dreamy twitcher Fernando after he goes off course in remote rural Portugal. His ensuing misadventures should infuriate stern Catholics and tickle just about everyone else. I wish I\u2019d been left tipsier by Whisky Galore! (Arrow, PG), a wholly unneeded remake of the sprightly Ealing classic that, for all its community-theatre enthusiasm, could use a bit more soda. I didn\u2019t laugh much at the manic antics of Bitch (Studiocanal, 15) either, though that\u2019s by design. Marianna Palka\u2019s spitting-acid feminist farce, in which a put-upon housewife is driven to literally barking madness by her lousy husband, deals in the kind of black comedy that catches in your throat. The rerelease of the week, meanwhile, is a big, brawny new packaging of Sorcerer (Entertainment One, 15), William Friedkin\u2019s once-dismissed, now-exalted 1977 blend of jungle-crunching action and existential road-movie meditation. It still sparks, as does its more shadowy, sinewy 1953 French inspiration The Wages of Fear (BFI, 12), cannily also given a smart reissue. Another week, another notable doc premiering on Netflix. Joan Didion: The Centre Will Not Hold (Netflix, 12) doesn\u2019t portray the eponymous American writer with anything like her own lemon-tinged shrewdness, instead surprising with its breezy affection. Well, not that surprising: director Griffin Dunne is Didion\u2019s nephew, so what this life study lacks in distanced scrutiny, it gains in interior knowledge. Didion gives as much as she wants to give, and Dunne, well, plays it as it lies. The film scoops up the smaller details of a life and legacy, letting the bigger picture emerge warmly, if not completely, from them."
"16||78/52 review \u2013 misfiring documentary on Hitchcock\u2019s PsychoThis documentary about the shower scene in Alfred Hitchcock\u2019s Psycho begins with an Edgar Allan Poe quote (already a bad sign). \u201cThe death of a beautiful woman is, unquestionably, the most poetical topic in the world,\u201d it begins, desperate to locate lyricism in the Master of Suspense\u2019s enduring fascination with dead blondes. But the film simplistically explains \u201cthe female body under assault\u201d in the horror genre as a backlash to a changing postwar world, not daring to question Hitch\u2019s personal brand of misogyny. More pretension abounds \u2013 like Psycho, the film is shot in black and white, calling on a celebrity cast of talking heads that range from Elijah Wood to Eli Roth to vainly analyse the iconic scene. To witness the sequence broken down in forensic detail is to appreciate its economy of storytelling anew, and to see its influence on subsequent popular culture, but to do so for 90 minutes might stretch even a superfan\u2019s patience."
"23||The Slaves of Solitude review \u2013 a woman on the verge of several brinksEmbarrassment and anxiety shiver through The Slaves of Solitude, Nicholas Wright\u2019s adaptation of Patrick Hamilton\u2019s 1947 novel. Don\u2019t they shiver through most people\u2019s lives? Hamilton is often called a \u201cminor\u201d writer, but I think there is some snobbery in that. True, he did not write Hamlet; nor did he write about men and women of action, but the outer world is mapped on to the inner lives of his characters with extraordinary intricacy. His writing, both novels and plays, is full of reverberations. It even has consequences. Not many playwrights have supplied the language with a new verb: but Hamilton gave us the increasingly useful \u201cgaslighting\u201d. Set in a boarding house on the Thames, The Slaves of Solitude powerfully suggests how civilians in the second world war might suffer a blackout of the soul. Jonathan Kent\u2019s production captures some sense of this some of the time. Tim Hatley\u2019s design, with aptly dim lighting by Peter Mumford, slides translucent screens between scenes, as if to cut the characters off from themselves. Fenella Woolgar, an actress so fine that she makes her face look utterly in period, is both delicate and sharp as the central character, a woman wobbling on several brinks: of middle age, of love (for an American soldier), of despair, of violence. Clive Francis is unforgettable as the boarding house bully, spilling over with vicious joviality and florid circumlocutions: \u201cdid\u2019st thou imbibe mighty potions to pursue the great god Bacchus in his unholy rites?\u201d He is a ghastly reminder that not all abuse is overtly sexual. Still, I think Wright is mistaken in thinking that the melodrama of Hamilton\u2019s plays has a place in The Slaves of Solitude, in which the darkness is foggy, and the more sinister for being only half acknowledged. He has given the story a thriller-like opening, overemphasised the grotesqueness of the heroine\u2019s brilliantly ambiguous female adversary, and made the last scene into a failed romantic encounter. That is to narrow the effect of a subtle work. It is good to see Hamilton staged, however partially, but this should not be the final version. \u2022 The Slaves of Solitude is at Hampstead theatre, London, until 25 November"
"14||Santa Claus may be coming to town, but will the shoppers go too?Christmas is still seven weeks away, but, unsurprisingly, that does not stop retailers getting into the festive spirit early in the hope to attract crowds to the tills. On Tuesday, singer Rita Ora will turn on the Christmas lights on Oxford Street to mark the beginning of the festivities, close to Marks &amp; Spencer\u2019s Marble Arch branch. But will it be a merry Christmas for retailers? This week both M&amp;S and Sainsbury\u2019s will announce half-year results at an uncertain time for the high street. A recent survey from the CBI showed high street sales falling at their fastest rate since the height of the recession in 2009 as inflation causes households to put the brakes on spending. The cost of groceries, clothes and electronics has been rising since the Brexit vote last year, piling pressure on shoppers. Recently, Asda\u2019s income tracker found that there has been a slump on the spending power of the average household, while research from Lloyds Bank found that families are feeling the strain of the rising costs of living compared with a year ago. All of which could add up to a grim Christmas for retailers as shoppers struggle to deal with the post-Brexit economy. A further warning was sounded last week when Next reported a fall in October high street sales. Retailers will be hoping that Rita Ora will be able to instil some festive cheer to start off the shopping season. Former Lloyds boss to face music over HBOS The former chief executive of Lloyds Banking Group is expected to take the stand in the high court this week in the ongoing case surrounding the circumstances that led to the rescue of HBOS at the height of the financial crash in 2008. Some 6,000 Lloyds investors, both private and corporate, are claiming \u00a3600m in compensation on the basis that they were not told about loans made to struggling HBOS \u2013 by the Bank of England as well as Lloyds \u2013 when they voted through the takeover in November 2008. The claim is against Lloyds and five of its former directors \u2013 including former chairman Sir Victor Blank and former chief executive Eric Daniels \u2013 who are all contesting the action. Daniels is due to take the stand (on 6 November), and the case is expected to last into the new year. Lloyds announced the HBOS deal in September 2008, just days after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, marking the beginning of the financial crash. At the opening of the case last month, lawyers for the shareholders claimed that they had been \u201cmugged\u201d by the bank and its former directors. Lloyds, which is also representing the former directors, is contesting the action. Two pints of lager and a packet of Brexit, please Investors in the Wetherspoons pub chain will be hitting the boozer early this week for the AGM of JD Wetherspoon. Of its 1,000 outlets, the company has chosen an appropriate venue \u2013 the Crosse Keys, a former bank in the City \u2013 but the 9am start may be a little early for a pint. Founder and chairman Tim Martin, an eager Brexiter, told shareholders that the new early start was to satisfy calls from institutional investors for more chance to ask questions. And this year there will be a lot to discuss. In September, Martin said the company might have to switch to suppliers from outside the EU as a result of Brexit, and that the strong start to its financial year could not be sustained. Drinkers in Wetherspoons pubs cannot get away from the topic, whether they want to or not. Last week, the chain put 500,000 new beer mats in its pubs, detailing the \u201cWetherspoon Manifesto\u201d of policies the company believes the UK should adopt. These include granting rights of citizenship to legal EU immigrants, eliminating import taxes on food from outside the EU, and stopping \u201cpaying the EU \u00a3200m per week\u201d."
"23||Under Milk Wood review \u2013 sure-footed shapeshiftingBy 1953, the poet Dylan Thomas was ready to turn to writing large-scale dramas. He died at the end of that year, shortly after completing Under Milk Wood, subtitled \u201cA Play for Voices\u201d and first broadcast on radio in January 1954. In this vivid poetic-dramatic evocation of the variegated population of a small Welsh seaside town, Thomas strands humour and death-tinged melancholy through monologues, dialogues, vignettes and songs. Llareggub and its population spring to vibrant life, so intensely particular that they achieve universality. Brendan O\u2019Hea\u2019s direction sure-footedly balances poetry and drama. On a bare stage, Wayne Dowdeswell\u2019s lighting seems almost a palpable entity surrounding the characters. Birdsong, children singing, the sough of \u201cthe jollyrogered sea\u201d, Gary Dixon\u2019s sounds entwine Olly Fox\u2019s music; they shape the space. Pale cloths hang from the flies; their scalloped edges etch shifting contours that suggest now hills, now clouds, now both together in Anna Kelsey\u2019s haunting design. The blending that characterises the setting finds an echo in the cross-gender casting: six actors shapeshift 37 roles. Only Alistair McGowan is stable as the Voice, narrating the town into being. In the \u201cbible-black\u201d darkness of the beginning, other voices stream from balcony and stalls to join his. Llareggub\u2019s inhabitants rise from the auditorium as if summonsed. Characters are everyday-believable yet of mythic dimensions \u2013 like Lynn Hunter\u2019s blind Captain Cat, salted with sea memories and tears. Using subtle movements and minimal props, each of the actors morphs roles in the space of a breath. Steffan Cennydd, languishing against a stage pillar, is Mae Rose Cottage, who longs to \u201csin till I blow up\u201d. A shift to upright and he instantly transforms into the Reverend Eli Jenkins. This witty juxtaposition is one of many. Ross Ford is willowy as lovelorn Myfanwy Price, spine-fused rigid as aspiring wife-murderer Mr Pugh. Among their multiple roles, Charlotte O\u2019Leary\u2019s Mrs Ogmore-Pritchard and Caroline Sheen\u2019s Polly Garter are particularly fine. Fifty years ago, Under Milk Wood was the Watermill\u2019s first professional production (it featured the young David Jason). If, in 50 years\u2019 time, the theatre mounts another version, it will be hard put to better O\u2019Hea\u2019s envisioning."
"22||The Consul; Lucia di Lammermoor review \u2013 the original kitchen sinkGian Carlo Menotti\u2019s life (1911-2007) reads like a cocktail of his own operas. First composition: aged five. First opera: aged 11. First seance: in his school holidays. Retaining a sense of the mystical, he compared composition to water divining: wait for the stick to start trembling, then dig. Menotti made a fortune thanks chiefly to his TV opera for children, Amahl and the Night Visitors (1951), commissioned by the US network NBC, and ended his days as laird of a glorious Scottish Palladian mansion in East Lothian. Why Scotland? Because of the wind, the rain, the cold, which he loved, and so he could be \u201ccompletely cut off from my past. It was a desire to find a place where I could hide.\u201d That alien sense of identity came in part from being an Italian in America, an American in Italy, and gay when to be so was illegal. That statelessness is central to The Consul, Menotti\u2019s first full-length opera, about a political dissident in an unnamed totalitarian country, oppressed by bureaucracy. The work has been given a rare staging by Guildhall School of Music and Drama\u2019s excellent opera department, conducted by Timothy Redmond and directed by Stephen Medcalf, last performance tomorrow. The relevance of its subject matter hardly needs stating. Menotti wrote The Consul, libretto too, in the late 1940s at the start of the cold war. It was first performed, to great acclaim, in 1950 on Broadway. He\u2019d have liked Maria Callas. She wasn\u2019t available. That gap between composition and premiere is significant. Creating tuneful, well-honed music in a post-Puccini vein, Menotti has never fitted any category except his own. This has led to exaggerated sneering, particularly from green-eyed avant gardists whose music may be more interesting but has not bought them stately homes. Little account has been taken of the ways in which Menotti was skilful, fertile and, for someone written off as conservative, often ahead of the game. The consul of the title is a Godot-like figure (ahead of Beckett\u2019s 1953 play, which still only existed in his notebook) who never appears. The opera\u2019s opening scene is domestic: a young wife, Magda, husband John, their baby and his mother share a brittle conversation in the kitchen where, yes, there is a sink. Call it kitchen sink drama if you like, but at least give Menotti credit for being several years ahead of that term\u2019s common use. There\u2019s also a touch of Brecht, a bizarre dream, a comic interlude with a magician (expertly sung and prestidigitated, in the second of two casts, by Daniel Mullaney) and a waltz sequence. At the start the music is anaemic, yet it grows more interesting as the score unfolds, with eerie, menacing woodwind effects and a prominent, earthy piano. Yes it\u2019s filmic, but that\u2019s not yet a crime. Guildhall orchestra\u2019s playing was secure, agile in response to the many mood changes. The music is effective rather than memorable. It works hard and supports the action; in that sense, more of a musical than an opera. It\u2019s not Bach, but nor is it Offenbach, as Menotti said himself. Guildhall\u2019s impressive, dozen-strong vocal ensemble, each having their spotlight moment, displayed plenty of talent, every word of the English text audible. All acted well, and danced smartly to Victoria Newlyn\u2019s witty movement direction. Simon Corder\u2019s compact staging had a nice 50s drabness. In Wednesday\u2019s performance, Michael Vickers mustered febrile, pent-up anger as the shadowy dissident, John Sorel. Chloe Latchmore as the Mother was tense and tender. Emily Kyte cleverly mixed spikiness and elan as the super-bureaucratic Secretary. The huge main role of Magda, who is rarely offstage, was sung with heartfelt conviction by Lucy Anderson. Watch out for her. Everyone deserved a cheer. This is very nearly a tale of two Scottish-obsessed and prolific Italian opera composers, united by East Lothian. Donizetti\u2019s 1835 bel canto tragedy, Lucia di Lammermoor, is set in the same Lammermuir hills which, with a bit of a stretch, Menotti might have seen from his parapet. Katie Mitchell\u2019s avowedly feminist production, new at the Royal Opera in 2016, is back for its first revival. Much has been simplified, to good effect. Vicki Mortimer\u2019s beautifully detailed split set allows a more complex presentation of the story than usual, foreground action in one half, background response in the other. It remains distracting, silent action sometimes upstaging singing, but there\u2019s less gore, less running water and greater clarity in the depiction of Lucia as an independent woman. The brass initially sounded somewhat lackadaisical under the baton of Michele Mariotti, but otherwise chorus and orchestra were ablaze. The cast is outstanding: Christopher Maltman (Enrico), Charles Castronovo (Edgardo) and Michele Pertusi (Bidebent), with Lisette Oropesa crystalline and ethereal in the title role. At the conductor\u2019s request there is no glass harmonica for the mad scene \u2013 a loss \u2013 but the replacement flute solo is exquisite. Perversely or not, Donizetti\u2019s opera reshapes its source, Walter Scott\u2019s The Bride of Lammermoor, so that the men are now to blame for Lucia\u2019s forced marriage and thwarted love. In the original, the heroine\u2019s mother was the villain, scheming against her own daughter. This realisation makes for an even more complicated gender equation than Katie Mitchell\u2019s, which I\u2019m not quite up for yet. Star ratings (out of 5) The Consul \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 Lucia di Lammermoor \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 \u2022 The Consul is at Silk Street theatre, London, until 6 November \u2022 Lucia di Lammermoor is in rep at the Royal Opera House, London, until 27 November"
"22||Croce: Motetti & Cantiones Sacrae CD review \u2013 grand Venetian musicThe Italian composer-priest Giovanni Croce (1557-1609), who influenced English composers such as John Dowland and Thomas Morley, sang at St Mark\u2019s, Venice as a boy soprano and became maestro di cappella there a few years before Monteverdi. Fluid, grand and immediate, Croce\u2019s music may not quite match the Gabrielis or Monteverdi for invention, but it has all the splendour and spatial awareness of the best Venetian music of the period. Concerto Scirocco and Voces Suaves recorded the album in Santa Barbara, Mantua, making full use of its double choir lofts, lively acoustic and splendid Renaissance organ. With its detailed notes and texts, it will give any Croce novice all they need."
"22||Bach arr Alessandrini: Variations on Variations CD review \u2013 revelatory Goldbergs and moreMost arrangements of Bach\u2019s adaptable music aim to bring it up to date for modern instruments; this group of transcriptions adapt it to the resources of the time but in new guises. So the great organ Passacaglia in C minor becomes a vigorous essay for solo strings, adding transparency and bite to the glorious sonorities. The Aria variata and Canzona are lesser pieces, but the revelation here is the Goldberg Variations, reimagined as a breathtaking romp. The canons are strictly done, but in the freer variations Rinaldo Alessandrini adds parts at will and dazzles with the virtuosity of his ensemble\u2019s playing. At the end, solo harpsichord and strings touchingly intertwine."
"22||Schubert: Piano Works Vols 8 & 9 CD reviews \u2013 a sparkling finaleThis release marks the culmination of a 30-year project by the Canadian pianist Paul Berkowitz and Meridian to record a full cycle of Schubert\u2019s piano works. Berkowitz closes with the Op 90 and Op 142 Impromptus (Vol 8) and Moments musicaux, Op 94, the Grazer Fantasie and three Klavierst\u00fccke (Vol 9). The surprisingly clipped nature of the opening Impromptu is a statement of intent: this deeply experienced pianist and teacher has plenty of new things to say about these familiar pieces. A sparkling technique allied to a clear sense of line make these recordings particularly special. He returns to St John\u2019s Smith Square, London on 9 November to play Schubert\u2019s final three sonatas \u2013 the very pieces with which he began his odyssey in 1987."
"14||Struggling Brexit Britain can barely afford this rise in ratesYou can look at it two ways. After ten years of inertia, Bank rate has doubled. Or: after 10 years of inertia, Bank rate has been raised by one quarter of one per cent, to half of one per cent. Big deal! Of course, for most businesses and individuals, the official rate is meaningless. It is the rate to which everything else is geared, but everything else is usually a lot higher than 0.25% or 0.5%. We read reports daily of how so many desperate borrowers find themselves struggling to pay the usurious interest rates associated with credit card debt. Personally, had I been a member of the Bank\u2019s monetary policy committee, I should not have voted for an increase at this juncture. The combination of austerity and the impact of the referendum-induced 15% devaluation of the pound is having a manifest impact on real incomes and retailing. The recent CBI news on the trend of retail sales was, well, terrible. I agree with Governor Carney and the colleagues who do not like to be out of step with him that official rates look absurdly low by historical standards. In an ideal world, they should be \u201cnormalised\u201d. But we are where we are: a British economy which, unlike many others, is in the doldrums and which \u2013 as the governor, to his credit, repeatedly points out \u2013 is heading from the doldrums into stormy waters if Brexit goes ahead. Monetary policy has, these last 10 years, been aimed at trying to counteract the deleterious impact of a seriously misconceived policy of austerity, which has had the effect of not only damaging so many people\u2019s living standards but also dampening confidence and the investment that would help to boost productivity. And now the prospect of Brexit! Michael Bloomberg, with, perhaps, a touch of hyperbole, recently described Brexit as \u201cthe single stupidest thing any country has ever done\u201d. He later added: \u201cI did say that I thought it was the single stupidest thing any country has ever done, but then we [the Americans] Trumped it.\u201d It has become a commonplace for people to say: \u201cAt least the Americans can get rid of Trump in four years\u2019 time, whereas the damage from Brexit will be long-lasting.\u201d The case for reversing the referendum decision becomes more and more obvious as the problems mount. It is increasingly clear that the government is in the process of disintegration. One of the former Remainer Theresa May\u2019s many mistakes was to place herself at the mercy of the a small core of Brexit ideologues, nearly all of whom think they are doing the work that their great heroine Margaret Thatcher would have done. It was therefore an important contribution to the debate when Sir Charles Powell, the Foreign Office civil servant who could read the former prime minister\u2019s mind as well as anyone, gave a lecture recently on \u201cMargaret Thatcher and Europe\u201d. Powell worked directly for Thatcher from 1983 to 1991, and remained in touch with her thereafter. As he said: \u201cI attended every European meeting, and every bilateral meeting with European leaders, that she held.\u201d For a start, she would not have held a referendum. In common with her great predecessor Clement Attlee, she regarded them as instruments of dictators, popular with Hitler and Mussolini. A lawyer herself, she had no problems with the role of the European court of justice, the institution with which Brexiters who go on about \u201csovereignty\u201d are so obsessed. Powell referred to her famous Bruges speech of 1988. That speech has been misrepresented as \u201cthe Eurosceptic charter\u201d. The key passage conveniently overlooked by Eurosceptics reads as follows: \u201cBritain does not dream of some cosy isolated existence on the fringes of the European community. Our destiny is in Europe as part of the community \u2026 I want to see us work more closely on the things we can do better together than alone.\u201d Of course she did not want us to become part of a superstate. But the uncomfortable truth for the disingenuous extreme-right Eurosceptics who seem to have entrapped May with their hard-Brexit propaganda is that there is no reason that, by remaining in the EU, we should become part of a superstate. Thatcher, her successor John Major, followed by Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, fought their corner on our behalf. They succeeded in getting almost everything we needed out of the EU, and eschewing the parts we didn\u2019t want to reach us, such as the eurozone and the Schengen treaty. As Powell said: \u201cMargaret Thatcher\u2019s thinking moved ever more on to the models and formulae for keeping Britain in the European community without our being full participants \u2013 variable-geometry Europe, inner and outer circles, opt-outs, a bespoke membership, and the like.\u201d This is what we have, and this arrangement is what the others are happy with. The idea that unless we leave we will lose our identity is a pernicious lie. As for these wild accusations that we Remainers should be considered \u201ctraitors\u201d \u2013 they smack of panic in the ranks of Brexiters, who may be beginning to realise that they are being found out. It is not we who are the traitors: it is the extreme Brexiters who are intent on selling this country down the river."
"21||Katz among the pigeons: why the dismay over C4 appointment?Ambitious, talented Ian Katz was for years effectively day-to-day editor of the print Guardian, responsible for everything from political news to sport and arts. The Newsnight he has run for the past four years has often been pleasantly eclectic. So why should Channel 4 contenders be quite so miffed that Katz \u2013 no true TV man apparently \u2013 should be the chosen successor to Jay Hunt as director of programmes? The real point here is that Alex Mahon \u2013 C4\u2019s new boss, once head of the very successful Shine independent production company \u2013 is perfectly qualified to be director of programmes herself. She has a keen creative edge, but she also doesn\u2019t want to get spheres of influence confused. Katz brings many things to the party, including hard news experience. He\u2019ll be creative with a fresh eye. Mahon can guide if necessary, but will mostly be concerned with grittier issues \u2013 like the government\u2019s continuing desire to move C4 to Birmingham. Meanwhile, after James Harding\u2019s departure as BBC head of news, there are many who see Katz\u2019s loss as a severe talent drain. No crisis, in fact: there\u2019s a strong line-up to take Harding\u2019s place. But with the increasing problem of cuts and government-imposed targets to make life difficult, there is still a sense of gathering gloom. Divided region - handle with care When you write about Catalonia and its media, you get stacks of responses. But one message from Barcelona made me pause. \u201cDo the people running Catalan TV and radio realise the harm they can do in a region where divisions often run down the middle of families, between husbands and wives, parents and children? Catalonia is split down the middle on independence but how, often within a household, do you cope with broadcasters calling one half of us Franco-lovers? It\u2019s malignant and corrosive. It shatters love and friendship. And I thought local broadcasters were supposed to serve all of their listeners, not just factions.\u201d"
"12||Facebook is not listening to the fake news furoreOne of the most instructive sights of the week was that of representatives of Twitter, Google and Facebook getting a grilling from a US Senate judiciary subcommittee on Capitol Hill. The topic at hand? \u201cExtremist content and Russian disinformation online\u201d, which, translated, reads: how did Russian use of social media affect the outcome of the 2016 presidential election? The committee chairman, Senator Lindsey Graham, set it up nicely in his opening statement by quoting what Trump had said on Fox News on 20 October: \u201cI doubt I\u2019d be here if it weren\u2019t for social media, to be honest with you.\u201d For three tech companies that, like all of Silicon Valley, loathe and despise politics, this was a nightmarish week. I mean to say, there they were, at the mercy of the low-IQ technophobes of Capitol Hill, live on C-Span (the congressional TV channel), something they had lobbied furiously to avoid. Their appearances were presaged by a flurry of press releases and revelations. The Russian exploitation of their advertising machines that they had once pooh-poohed was, it turned out, much more extensive than they had imagined. Facebook, for example, had belatedly discovered that 126 million people in the US may have seen posts produced by Russian-government-backed agents on its site. Very devious coves, those Ruskies. A few things emerged from the hearing. The first is that legislators seem to be getting worried about the power of the big tech companies, especially Facebook. \u201cHow does Facebook,\u201d asked Senator Al Franken, \u201cwhich prides itself on being able to process billions of data points and instantly transform them into personal connections for its users, somehow not make the connection that electoral ads, paid for in rubles, were coming from Russia?\u201d Good question, which produced no answer from Colin Stretch, the company\u2019s general counsel. Second, the legislators focused too much on the Russian ads and ignored what may be a bigger problem, namely the 80,000 \u201corganic\u201d posts that appeared in the news feeds of a third of American Facebook users. These were ingenious posts that appeared to come from US users and carried messages that, though not overtly political, were designed to press emotional buttons in a way that could have had a political impact. To a detached observer, though, it looked like classical political theatre. The politicians huffed and puffed and kept an eye on their Twitter feeds. There was much cant about \u201cfinding solutions\u201d. And the company representatives mimed contrition but yielded little ground. All of which was predictable. My guess is that nothing much will happen. On the political side, the Republicans who control Congress have no intention of doing anything to regulate the tech companies. Three Democratic senators have put forward a bill that would require the companies to provide more information about the political ads that they accept and run. It\u2019s called the Honest Ads Act, which would make it the first oxymoron to make it on to the statute book. But its chances of progressing are infinitesimally small, if only because the midterm elections loom. On the corporate side, nothing much will happen either. Of course the companies are promising to recruit lots of people to help them stamp out abuses of their advertising engines. They are also investing heavily (they say) in AI that will be smart enough to outwit those fiendish Russians. (Good luck with that.) The one thing they will not do, however, is anything that might undermine their business models, which are, at least in the cases of Google and Facebook, licences to print money. Just to emphasise that point, Facebook has just released its results for the third quarter of 2017. They show that its number of \u201cdaily active users\u201d grew by 50 million to 1.37 billion. Its revenues are up by 47% from what they were a year ago. And its share price now stands at $182 compared with $127 last November. It will take more than a spot of public humiliation at the hands of a few senators to persuade them to switch off a money-making machine like that. Summing up: the companies have no incentive to change their ways. And there\u2019s no real political will in the US to make them. All of which perhaps explains why Mark Zuckerberg wasn\u2019t on Capitol Hill but in China to meet the great Thought Leader Xi Jinping. Now there\u2019s a politician worth sucking up to."
"21||Due process is essential \u2013 yes, even for Westminster sleazeOver a decade ago in Dar es Salaam, I was running a British Council seminar for journalists \u2013 a dozen or so men, half that number of women \u2013 from seven southern African countries. One afternoon we got round to work, sex and the whole murky drama now being played out on stages from Hollywood to the Palace of Westminster. And the women didn\u2019t hold back. \u201cLook,\u201d cried one Tanzanian freelance feature writer. \u201cI want to get a piece published so I have to sleep with the editor. Then I want to be paid and I have to sleep with the cashier.\u201d She was on her feet, blazing anger and cheered on by the other women \u2013 while the men skulked in silence. They didn\u2019t deny; they didn\u2019t mutter formula phrases about \u201cinappropriate behaviour\u201d. They just took punishment. It was a brilliant, chastening spectacle. And I loved the fire and fury. Which, in every sense, seems a long way from where we are now in the handsy world of touched knees and Michael Fallon\u2019s warm places. \u201cThe trouble with sexual harassment is that it isn\u2019t as cut and dried as, say, burglary, because it\u2019s not simply about what the perpetrator did,\u201d writes Gaby Hinsliff in the Guardian. \u201cLike other harassment offences, its legal definition relies on the victim feeling intimidated or humiliated \u2013 feelings that might in turn depend on her age, life stage, confidence and temperament but also, crucially, on the power dynamic.\u201d In short, it\u2019s a movable feast of indifference or outrage: and there is no single answer, no single set of rules (or benign Commons investigatory offices) that can deal completely with something so personal or malleable. It\u2019s about many things, including age and changing attitudes. Older women grow nervous, writes Janice Turner in the Times (as she looks at some of the earlier crop of allegations) \u201cbecause it is mob justice, hearsay that is impossible for a wronged man to refute; it conflates a genuine abuse with a clumsy pass; we fear the backlash will be hideous when it comes\u201d. Sarah Vine in the Mail, aka Mrs Michael Gove, sees \u201ca hysterical Westminster witch hunt\u201d \u2013 \u201cif this is what a world run by women looks like, count me out\u201d. But both Turner and Vine remember the Julia Hartley-Brewer age, decades back, when finding a Fallon hand on your knee was \u201cmildly amusing\u201d. No one, though, should expect the remotest consensus today. Take that \u201cwitch hunt\u201d line, says Suzanne Moore in the Guardian. \u201cAny woman who does not want to be groped has no sense of humour. So they had to run out of a hotel room while the man they work for pleasured himself? They should take it in their stride. Men are the victims here. Look at all the big names accused of stuff they don\u2019t even remember doing. The poor, persecuted slimeballs.\u201d Tough, unrelenting stuff. But also curiously insular in a Westminster sense. Harassment didn\u2019t begin with Harvey Weinstein. In the States, this time around, it began with Roger Ailes and Bill O\u2019Reilly at Fox News, many millions of hush payments ago. It began with Donald J Trump: \u201cI moved on her and I failed. I\u2019ll admit it \u2026 I did try and fuck her. She was married. And I moved on her very heavily \u2026 I moved on her like a bitch, but I couldn\u2019t get there.\u201d But Fox News is still America\u2019s top cable news channel, and Donald is still president of the US, the most powerful man in the world. Little Britain and Little Westminster aren\u2019t high on this scale of international ignominy (while the US berates Spacey and Hoffman). Who do we blame as our legislators squirm in a squall of dodgy dossiers? How does our media make sense of the furore? There have been many good articles by women (some of them quoted above). There\u2019s been very little from men. The BBC, which might have soft-pedalled issues like this in former times, has led the charge full throttle, maybe too eagerly at times. Social media, as usual, is a morass of names and lurid details: Westminster gossip turned digital. Print journalism, as usual, follows on behind, stuck with imperatives like accuracy, regulation and libel law. But the basics of some kind of calm are pretty clear. Some rough agreement on the revised order. \u201cFlirting great. Asking for dates great. Assault, harassment, groping, rape, not great. Some men need to learn the difference\u201d, tweets Jenni Russell of the Times. Some gentler, respected way of handling and mediating cases. And some resolve to find peace in the gender wars. Oh! and some sense of perspective, too. It\u2019s only a year or so since the commissioner of the Metropolitan police apologised to the wife of Leon Brittan for an investigation turned rancid. It\u2019s only a few months since Lord Macdonald, a former DPP, told the Times that the police inquiry into Ted Heath was a \u201ctragicomedy of incompetence\u201d. It\u2019ll probably be only a minute or two more before we discover more holes in that dubious dossier. This doesn\u2019t invalidate the stream of sad testimony. But it is also crucial for all involved \u2013 including the media \u2013 that there is some sense of due process and due seriousness here in the weird new world of Tinder and tribulation. There need to be new lines in the sand after all this milling, lip-smacking distress. A life wasted on whatever side of the divide is still a life destroyed."
"27||Ruined, but Johnsons dry cleaner only offered me half the cost of \u2018priceless\u2019 wedding dressI sent my designer wedding dress to Johnsons dry cleaners/Timpson for a post-wedding clean which cost \u00a3250 \u2013 but it\u2019s now unwearable with chemical discolouration to the front and back. I had bought it for \u00a32,300 in a sample sale and paid \u00a3175 for alterations. I sent the company these receipts. Firstly, I did not receive an apology. Then it offered 50% of the cost as, according to correspondence, the \u201cdress\u2019s primary purpose has been fulfilled\u201d. That is not the point. It has huge sentimental value and I may pass it on to my children which is why I had it cleaned and boxed for protection. The life expectancy of the dress was \u201cforever\u201d. Johnsons has since offered a further \u00a3100 goodwill payment but I\u2019m not convinced this is fair. SP, London Under the Consumer Rights Act a dry cleaner must treat your items with reasonable care and skill and within a reasonable time. That also means if it loses an item or fails to clean it properly, it should compensate you. That should be based on the item\u2019s value, with a deduction for the use you had out of it. The cleaner only needs to pay what an item was worth when you left it, which inevitably may be hard to calculate. Johnsons says it follows compensation guidelines provided by trade body the Textiles Services Association. However, we struggled to find any helpful information on its website and agree the point about the dress having \u201cfulfilled\u201d its purpose seems irrelevant. However, Chris Haan, a solicitor in Leigh Day\u2019s consumer law and product safety team (admitting your case sounded like a law exam question), says: \u201cIt\u2019s harsh, given how special the dress was, but the compensation offered is likely within the range she might get if she took it to court. \u201cThe dry cleaner appears to admit liability, so the issue is how much compensation she is entitled to. That largely depends on how she planned to use the dress after having it cleaned. If it had been damaged before the wedding she could have claimed for a replacement, as well as a refund of the cleaning bill. If she planned to sell it after the wedding she could claim the market value of the dress plus a refund of the cleaning bill.\u201d If you took this to the small claims court he thinks you might be able to recover an amount for the lost sentimental value and a refund for the cleaning bill, although this would be up to the judge as \u201cit\u2019s impossible to put a price on sentimental value\u201d. The company still refuses to up its earlier offer but has offered a bunch of flowers and a written apology for \u201cthe distress\u201d you have been caused. We welcome letters but cannot answer individually. Email us at consumer.champions@theguardian.com or write to Consumer Champions, Money, the Guardian, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. Please include a daytime phone number. Submission and publication of all letters is subject to our terms and conditions."
"22||Mary J Blige: \u2018I lost my gut and my gift. But I got it back\u2019In 2015, Mary J Blige gave an impassioned performance on the Pyramid Stage at Glastonbury. The crowd watched her through the pouring rain, and as her most famous single, No More Drama, came to a rapturous end, she fell to the floor, and looked as if she was about to break down into tears. \u201cI didn\u2019t know so many people knew my songs,\u201d she says, two years later, over dinner in a London hotel. \u201cIt was really emotional for me, for so many reasons that I can\u2019t even get into. But life is revealing them right now.\u201d There\u2019s a lot going on in Blige\u2019s life. She\u2019s just off the plane from the United States, and she needs fried food, so the artist known as the queen of hip-hop soul ends up picking at fish and chips and drinking a cup of tea. She seems tired. She keeps circling back to the end of her marriage. In 2016, she filed for divorce from her husband of 12 years, Kendu Isaacs, citing irreconcilable differences. He had also been her manager. She doesn\u2019t want this interview to be \u201call about that one thing\u201d, yet she can\u2019t seem to help but talk about it, again and again. The past five years have been hard, but change is on the horizon. \u201cThis is a whole other chapter of my life,\u201d she insists. The previous chapters have been action-packed, to say the least. Blige grew up in Yonkers, New York, and was signed to Uptown Records as a teenager in the late 80s, after a tape of her singing an Anita Baker track in a shopping mall found its way to the label. She was a backing singer first, before she released her debut album, What\u2019s the 411?, produced by Puff Daddy, in 1992. Her star rose fast. The album won multiple awards and went triple platinum, selling more than 3m copies. She collaborated with George Michael, U2 and Elton John, who said she had \u201cone of the best voices you\u2019re ever going to hear\u201d. Her music was often raw, and laid out the suffering she endured in toxic relationships. She\u2019d had problems with drink and drugs. In 2001, when she released No More Drama, there was a sense that she was drawing a line under the pain. But Blige is not here to promote a new album, though she released one of her best records in years back in April, The Strength of a Woman. She moved to Los Angeles towards the end of her marriage in order to take acting more seriously. She\u2019d acted before, doing bit parts and guest roles here and there, mostly in comedies, but today she\u2019s talking about Mudbound, the new film she\u2019s starring in, which tells an evocative story of racism and friendship on a farm in Mississippi in the period immediately after the Second World War. Blige is Florence Jackson, the stoic mother of a GI who returns from war to the same old prejudice. It isn\u2019t a subtle story, but it\u2019s deeply harrowing and has a hefty emotional grip that lingers long after it\u2019s over. As Florence, Blige negotiates hardship, pain and fierce injustice with a surprising and gentle subtlety. \u201cI believe it will have that effect on everyone, because of how close it is now to how we\u2019re living in the world,\u201d says Blige. She doesn\u2019t want to be too political, she says, but there\u2019s a reason that it resonates now, and she\u2019s angry and articulate about the state of her home nation. \u201cLook at what our leadership is doing. He\u2019s exploding. It\u2019s a nightmare. I\u2019ve never seen anything like this. How did we go from President Obama, maturity and positivity and wisdom, to negativity and texting and twittering and all this bullshit, and blowing up and pointing the finger? It\u2019s crazy.\u201d Mudbound is her first real chance at a meaty role, and she more than holds her own against a seasoned cast that includes Jonathan Banks and Carey Mulligan. Director Dee Rees has said she only wanted Blige for Florence; Blige said she accepted immediately, because the script moved her to tears. She hired an acting coach, who taught her to use what was going on in her life \u2013 \u201cI always have a lot of stuff going on in my life,\u201d she smiles. She set to work on shedding her pop star skin: \u201cYou can\u2019t be Mary J Blige. You\u2019ve got to be Florence, in the heat, in the mosquitoes, in the mud, in the little shack with all the kids and the husband. Mary J Blige don\u2019t have a husband\u2026 any more.\u201d Was it nice to not be Mary J Blige for a while? \u201cAbsolutely. It was liberating. I used to wear a lot of weaves and wigs and cover up my edges and stuff. Florence got me out here wearing my edges out. I was running around with no perm, no press, just my own natural hair, barely any make-up. It was good for me.\u201d In her diamond hoop earrings and black lace top, wavy blonde hair tied high, Blige is predictably glamorous, despite the fish and chips in front of her. (\u201cWhat is this?\u201d she asks at one point, prodding something small and round on the side of her plate. It looks like a pickled egg, I say. She\u2019s appalled at the idea.) The film made her realise how vain she normally is. \u201cI was angry about not having lashes! I was kind of hot about that, and then I was like, \u2018Oh my God Mary, you\u2019re so vain.\u2019\u201d Where Blige grew up, in the housing projects of Yonkers, appearance mattered. \u201cEverything was about how you look. Although you didn\u2019t have, it was about how you looked. So when Salt-N-Pepa had the blonde hair, it was about that, it was about the sneakers, it was about the jackets. Then I became Mary J Blige, and it was really about that. She\u2019s such a real person that I had to get rid of her to make sure that character lived.\u201d I am briefly confused. Who\u2019s the real person? \u201cMary is a real person,\u201d she clarifies. \u201cI had to really surrender from her to make sure Florence could live. Turns out Florence is even doper than Mary J Blige.\u201d Blige often talks of \u201cMary J Blige\u201d like this, as if she\u2019s a separate entity to the woman sitting across the table from me. Why? \u201cWell, Mary J Blige is me, but she is a business, and separate. But she\u2019s me.\u201d It\u2019s been 25 years since What\u2019s the 411? came out, and the disconnect between the two \u2013 Mary the performer, the star, and Mary the human being \u2013 is so pronounced that she seems disoriented by it, even now. She grasps for the precise words to describe how it feels to go from poverty to riches, from the projects to such fame. \u201cIf you have a lot of money, you can cover up everything. When you don\u2019t have a lot of money, it doesn\u2019t cover anything. So you learn how to walk through embarrassment and shame. I appreciate it and I\u2019m so grateful for it.\u201d That gratitude is all part of her survival instinct, which has come in handy over the years. \u201cYou know how to weather that storm when you don\u2019t have money. You know how to weather that storm when some embarrassing shit on TMZ hits you. It all teaches you tough skin.\u201d I wonder how tough her skin really is. She\u2019s had plenty of dramas over the course of her life, despite declaring that there would be no more of them, but whenever I\u2019ve heard her talk about the various scandals or controversies she\u2019s encountered, she sounds genuinely upset by it all. Last year she interviewed the then-presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, and was widely mocked for singing at her. \u201cI thought that I was trying to help us to make a change,\u201d she sighs. \u201cThis is me, this is Mary J Blige, I\u2019m no journalist, I\u2019m scared to death.\u201d During their conversation, she offered Clinton a brief cover of Bruce Springsteen\u2019s American Skin (41 Shots), a song about police brutality. \u201cIt affected me that people just cannot look at something positive and get on board. They\u2019ve got to pick on you. No matter how positive it is, they\u2019ve got to find some way to make a meme about it. It\u2019s like \u2013 cool. You know what, fine. Fuck \u2019em. Right?\u201d She laughs, drily. \u201cThat\u2019s how you move on.\u201d Unprompted, she comes back to her divorce again. For the past year or so the couple have been going through a nasty court battle. When things were going wrong in her professional life, personal alarm bells began to ring. \u201cI had the Burger King commercial [she starred in an ad that was quickly pulled when it was criticised for racial stereotyping], then my taxes and my business were all over the TV, and then it was this, then it was that. I was like, \u2018What the hell is going on? Have I been abandoned? Yes.\u2019 That was a big signal. I had been abandoned in my marriage.\u201d What was the big signal? \u201cEvery single thing that was happening. It was one bad thing after the next.\u201d She started to see herself not only on celebrity gossip sites, but on the news. \u201cOn the ticker, at the bottom of the TV. Yikes. At the same time, there was something beautiful about that. It made me realise how important I was to the world. I\u2019m that big of a star? Well, let me get my shit together then.\u201d There\u2019s that dry laugh again. \u201cIt\u2019s not the things I did right that informed me. It\u2019s all the mistakes I made that are helping me to better my life. Because that was a disaster. I didn\u2019t know if I was going to make it.\u201d Do you mean last year? \u201cThe last five years were a disaster. And then on top of that I was having trouble in my marriage, hoping to save it, when my marriage was already gone. I was left alone.\u201d Blige felt so lost during this time that she began to question whether she even wanted to make music any more. \u201cI just wasn\u2019t sure about anything. If someone chips away at your self-esteem and it\u2019s so low that you don\u2019t even know you can do what you do\u2026\u201d She trails off. She moved to London for a while, to get away, and in 2014 released The London Sessions, an album she made with Sam Smith and Disclosure, among others. \u201cThey helped boost my self-esteem and they helped me believe in my talent. They believed in me and I was like, \u2018Well shit, maybe I should start believing in myself again.\u2019\u201d Hang on, I say. You\u2019re Mary J Blige! Why do you need Disclosure to tell you how good you are? \u201cIt doesn\u2019t matter, you know,\u201d she says, sadly. \u201cWhen you\u2019ve been in something so long that you\u2019ve been chipped away, and it happens little by little, and it\u2019s a crazy thing. It was about seeing that someone appreciated me.\u201d This year, she released the painfully honest The Strength of a Woman. \u201cYeah. When it comes to music now, I know my gut is great. That\u2019s what I lost, my gut and my gift. But I got it back. It\u2019s back now.\u201d Then there\u2019s Mudbound, which is keeping Blige busy, and more acting to come. She\u2019s got another couple of roles lined up, though she can\u2019t talk about what they are yet. She\u2019s taking care of her own finances for the first time in her life, overseeing every single bit of what comes in and what goes out, because she feels as if she can\u2019t trust people enough to do it for her. She says that she kept meeting people and thinking they were decent, \u201cand meantime they were robbing you just like everyone else was robbing you\u201d. We end up talking about the recent Whitney Houston documentary. \u201cYeah. She was very lonely. She couldn\u2019t have the person who she really, really loved around, because other people came in and moved that person out, and now she\u2019s alone. So yeah. You know that saying, it\u2019s lonely at the top? It\u2019s not a saying, it\u2019s true,\u201d she says, softly. Mudbound will launch on Netflix and in cinemas with Curzon on 17 November Styling Christina Pacelli at theonly.agency Dress The Blonds Earrings Starrs London Rings Joanna Laura Constantine &amp; APM Monaco Blazer Tadashi Shoji Trousers Dsquared2 Necklace Vitae Ascendere Choker and ring W Britt Earrings and ring Joanna Laura Constantine"
"6||The week in radio and podcasts: All in the Mind; ImpotentialAll in the Mind (Radio 4) | iPlayer Impotential (Radio 4) | iPlayer The mind and the body \u2013 it\u2019s a dualism that we can\u2019t escape, even on Radio 4. Particularly on Radio 4. All in the Mind returned with Claudia Hammond for a kind of unintentional Halloween special. The lead subject was sleep paralysis, a condition suffered by around one in 20 people. It\u2019s the sensation that you are awake but can\u2019t move. I\u2019ve experienced it a handful of times myself, once most severely many years ago on my own in a flophouse in Costa Rica. I woke but my body wouldn\u2019t move. I was also aware that I couldn\u2019t speak. No one in the world knew where I was. And I had a sudden fear that I\u2019d be stuck, paralysed, in a cheap hotel room in San Jos\u00e9 for ever. A few seconds later, my body came joltingly alive, as if I\u2019d been convulsed by an electric shock. It was a deeply unpleasant experience. So I sympathised when one sufferer spoke of her serial problems with sleep paralysis. In her case, she sometimes imagined that someone, a burglar or a rapist, was in the room with her, which must be really disturbing. Apparently another common symptom is believing that someone \u2013 often a demon \u2013 is sitting on your chest. This, as Christopher French, professor of psychology at Goldsmiths, noted, was the inspiration for Henry Fuseli\u2019s famous painting, The Nightmare, of a blond maiden lying on her back with an incubus planted on her midriff. The explanation for this sensation, French suggested, is that in sleep paralysis we\u2019re unable to take a deep breath, so it feels as if someone or something is sitting on our chest. But why do we get sleep paralysis? Put simply, it occurs when our brain wakes up but our body doesn\u2019t. If that doesn\u2019t make you want to climb into bed for a relaxing nap, there is also a condition called \u201cexploding head syndrome\u201d. I thought that was associated with listening to Thought for the Day, but it\u2019s actually, as French put it, \u201ca thing, a genuine thing\u201d. This delightful phenomenon arrives when you\u2019re drifting off to sleep and you hear \u2013 or think you hear \u2013 a loud noise, often a scream or a door slamming, and see a blinding flash. No need to worry if you get this \u2013 it\u2019s just an hallucination. The mind, alas, is not always to be trusted. A recent study showed that people who are inclined to see patterns in paintings where no pattern exists are also more likely to believe in the paranormal and conspiracy theories. So the next time someone tells you a terrorist attack is a false flag operation conducted by the secret state, pull out an image of a Jackson Pollock painting and ask them to join the dots. Impotential focused on the malfunctioning of the body, specifically that small part of it that looms so large in male self-identity: the penis. It was a programme about erectile dysfunction, something that afflicts one in 12 males and 30% of those over 65. \u201cYou could hit it with a chocolate whipping stick,\u201d said Graham, \u201cand nothing\u2019s going to happen.\u201d What is a chocolate whipping stick? Presenter Petra Boynton wisely chose not to explore this question. Instead, she spoke to several men with differing experiences of flaccidity. Some had lost their erections owing to operations that had removed their prostates, while others were subject to psychological stress. Feme was badly beaten as a child by his father with an umbrella for the sin of having been aroused by his father\u2019s extensive pornography collection. His mother was the informer. \u201cLooking back,\u201d he said, \u201cthat probably did have some kind of effect on me.\u201d You could say that again. This is where the dualism breaks down, because an attack on the body is always, first and foremost, an attack on the mind."
"24||In defence of Brussels: \u2018If you actually know it, you probably love it\u2019Coming home from a holiday last week, I had a brief conversation with the taxi driver about Belgium. He looked at me in his rear-view mirror and said, \u201cBeen somewhere lovely, have you?\u201d \u201cWhy yes,\u201d I said. \u201cI\u2019ve been to Brussels.\u201d There were a few seconds of doubt and confusion. Then the taxi driver said, \u201cWhy?\u201d \u201cI lived there once and I really love it,\u201d I said. \u201cOh,\u201d said the taxi driver. And then he nodded, lost interest and put the radio on. Conversations about Belgium are \u2013 in my experience \u2013 often this brief, and any mention of Brussels is likely to land me in an unwanted conversation about office blocks, Brexit or a tiny statue of a naked weeing boy. But, occasionally, I\u2019ll see someone\u2019s eyes light up and they\u2019ll say, \u201cOh, I love Brussels\u201d \u2013 and then they\u2019ll tell me about the friend or relative they frequently visit, or about that time, ages ago, when they lived there themselves. Brussels is that kind of place. If you actually know it, you probably love it. My love for Brussels began in 1995. I was in my early 20s when I arrived, grubby and half-asleep, at the biggest railway station, Gare du Midi, on the night train from Avignon, having escaped a joyless job on a hotel boat in the south of France. I\u2019d only intended to stay for a few days on my friend Tracey\u2019s sofa before making my way on to Zeebrugge to catch a ferry home to Felixstowe. But somehow I ended up staying a year. And even though I took an instant liking to those things for which Brussels is best known \u2013 the Grand Place, the Atomium and, of course, beer and chocolate \u2013 it is an altogether different Brussels that I fell in love with. And that Brussels is one where few tourists rarely ever venture. It\u2019s a shame; they\u2019re missing out. Ixelles is an area in the Upper Town, just south of the city centre and accessed by the metro stations Louise and Porte de Namur. I lived near the latter in the heart of the Congolese quarter known as Matong\u00e9. Having moved on from Tracey\u2019s sofa, I was now sharing an apartment with Sandrine, a young Belgian woman. In one direction, we were two minutes away from African shopping arcades and in the other, a stone\u2019s throw from L\u2019Ultime Atome, a very hip cafe beloved by the British expat crowd and Belgians alike. Both the arcades and the cafe are still going strong. Take a walk up Chauss\u00e9e de Wavre for a little taste of Kinshasa in Belgium and then head on to Place Saint Boniface for one of the coolest cafes in Brussels. It\u2019s worth the price of a coffee alone just to sit outside in the gorgeous little square and watch the world go by \u2013 a world which is Belgian, African and also discreetly British. British expats have always been a presence in Ixelles. In 1842, Charlotte and Emily Bront\u00eb \u2013 on a year out, like me \u2013 regularly spent their Sundays at a house on Chauss\u00e9e d\u2019Ixelles, having tea with a British family who lived there. Later, in 1907, an English nurse named Edith Cavell arrived in Ixelles to work at a nursing school. The First World War proved fatal for Edith Cavell but she is still remembered in Brussels. There is now a street and a hospital named after her \u2013 although not in Ixelles where they perhaps might best belong. Another notable British resident of Ixelles was Audrey Hepburn, who was born and grew up at 48 Rue Keyenveld, just a short walk away from one of Brussels\u2019s most expensive boulevards, the Toison d\u2019Or. A commemorative plaque highlights her house. It\u2019s impossible to miss because there is usually a group of excited girls hanging around outside. Another gem hidden down a quiet residential street is the Mus\u00e9e d\u2019Ixelles. Among the permanent exhibits on display in this art gallery are paintings by Magritte, Mir\u00f3 and Picasso, as well as an impressive collection of original posters by Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. And the best thing about this museum is that you have it all pretty much to yourself. You can stand in front of a Toulouse-Lautrec for as long as you like and be confident that nobody is about to barge you out of the way and then whack you in the face with a selfie-stick. The first Belgium retrospective of the work of French photographer Robert Doisneau has just opened at the museum, and the show is running till next February But the art in Ixelles isn\u2019t just in this gallery; it really is everywhere. Look up at the windows and balconies and you\u2019re likely to spot both art nouveau and art deco features. In Place Eug\u00e8ne Flagey, an enormous and striking art deco building dominates the square. Having stood derelict during the 1990s, it is now an arts venue and home to Caf\u00e9 Belga \u2013 another candidate for the coolest cafe in the world. Just beyond it, Ixelles turns leafy and art nouveau mansions form a border along the Etangs d\u2019Ixelles \u2013 two large and pretty ponds. It\u2019s ever so slightly like Central Park\u2019s Upper West Side but without any hipsters. Keep walking and you come to what may be the best-kept secret of them all, the Abbaye de la Cambre. On a bright day, this ancient abbey and its immaculate gardens could well be the most tranquil place on earth. You have to see it to really understand. And I suppose that goes for the whole of Ixelles. But if you do go, you might want to keep it to yourself or else it\u2019ll be as busy up there as it is in front of that dodgy statue of the weeing boy. Way to go Double rooms at the four-star Hotel NH Brussels St\u00e9phanie are available from \u00a357.35 per night (room-only) at weekends; prices can double during the week. The nearby Pantone boutique hotel has double rooms from \u00a366 weekends, more during the week. British Airways flies Heathrow to Brussels from \u00a370. Eurostar fares from London to Brussels start at \u00a329 one way, if booked well in advance"
"15||Winter by Ali Smith review \u2013 luminously beautifulThink of a classic winter tale, and Dickens\u2019s A Christmas Carol might be the first to mind. It\u2019s clearly one of the models for the second part of Ali Smith\u2019s seasonal quartet, a novel of great ferocity, tenderness, righteous anger and generosity of spirit that you feel Dickens would have recognised. Sophia Cleves is a Scrooge for our time, a retired businesswoman whose work always took precedence over family. Now holed up in her 15-bedroom house in Cornwall, she is, as her estranged sister, Iris, observes, \u201can old miserly grump who had nothing in the house for your son and his girlfriend for Christmas except a bag of walnuts and half a jar of glace cherries\u201d. But Sophia has not been alone; as the story opens she is chatting to a child\u2019s disembodied head that bobs cheerfully around her like the dancing light of Christmas past. Like Scrooge\u2019s ghosts, the head is a shape-shifter, at times taking on the form of the Green Man of legend, at others appearing more like a sculpture by Barbara Hepworth, one of the novel\u2019s other tutelary spirits. Midnight chimes over and over for Sophia on Christmas Eve, as the narrative cuts between past and present as if being shown to the reader in a vision (\u201cLet\u2019s see another Christmas\u2026\u201d). Names are freighted with meaning and irony here. Iris, \u201cthe wild one\u201d, a former Greenham Common protester and lifelong activist recently returned from helping refugees in Greece, is nicknamed \u201cIre\u201d. Wisdom is the one thing Sophia lacks, and must learn. Her son, Arthur, in this Cornish setting recalls England\u2019s once and future king, except that we are told on the opening page that \u201cromance was dead. Chivalry was dead.\u201d Instead, he is known as Art, offering plentiful wordplay; he fancies himself as a nature writer, but his blog, Art in Nature, is made of fabricated memories and journeys (\u201cFake Art\u201d), and his day job involves destroying artists by reporting them to a multinational corporation for copyright infringement. Into this fragmented family arrives the enigmatic Lux, a Croatian student, whom Art meets at a bus stop and hires to impersonate his girlfriend over Christmas so that he won\u2019t have to tell his mother they\u2019ve split up. Her name recalls St Lucy, whose day used to coincide with the winter solstice, patron saint of light in darkness. As in Smith\u2019s novel The Accidental, it is the stranger in their midst with a licence to speak the truth who shines a light on a family\u2019s faultlines and brings healing. And over the whole story falls the long shadow of the EU referendum, as it did with her Man Booker-shortlisted predecessor, Autumn; there\u2019s a painfully accurate comic portrait of a Christmas lunch fraught with tension between family members on different sides. Winter\u2019s other overt model is Shakespeare\u2019s late play Cymbeline, \u201cabout a kingdom subsumed in chaos, lies, powermongering, division and a great deal of poisoning and self-poisoning\u201d, Sophia observes. \u201cI was telling you about it,\u201d Lux says, \u201cbecause it\u2019s like the people in the play are living in the same world but separately from each other, like their worlds have somehow become disjointed or broken off each other\u2019s worlds.\u201d Smith\u2019s ire has clearly not abated; Iris\u2019s history of protest contains an acknowledgment that none of the threats she has spent the past 50 years fighting \u2013 nuclear war, chemical leaks, climate destruction \u2013 have retreated, that victories are only ever temporary. Lux\u2019s faux-naif pronouncements on migration can feel a little like a manifesto, though heartfelt. These novels are a deliberate publishing experiment, to see how close to publication the author can capture current events; inevitably, even at a distance of months,11th-hour references to the Grenfell fire and Trump\u2019s reclaiming of \u201cMerry Christmas\u201d already seem like snapshots of the past. \u201cMythologiser\u201d is one of the insults Sophia repeatedly flings at her sister, but from this author it\u2019s high praise; Smith is engaged in an extended process of mythologising the present state of Britain, and Winter is at its most luminously beautiful when the news fades and merges with recent and ancient history, a reminder that everything is cyclical. There is forgiveness here, and song, and comic resolution of sorts, but the abiding image is of the tenacity of nature and light. \u2022 Winter by Ali Smith is published by Hamish Hamilton (\u00a316.99). To order a copy for \u00a314.44 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"6||The week in TV: Alias Grace; Blue Planet II; Trust Me I\u2019m a Doctor and moreAlias Grace Netflix Blue Planet II (BBC1) | iPlayer Trust Me I\u2019m a Doctor (BBC2) | iPlayer Bounty Hunters Sky1 Man Down (C4) | All 4 Strike Back Sky1 Another month, another Margaret Atwood tale making it to the small screen and, if there\u2019s any justice, getting us all talking, all enthralled, once again. Atwood has hardly been unacknowledged in the book world \u2013 Kazuo Ishiguro recently said she, not he, should have taken this year\u2019s Nobel for literature \u2013 but it is surely splendid to see her work so richly and newly imagined. Her novel Alias Grace was written 21 years ago now, but could have been written yesterday or, in fact, tomorrow. A fictionalised tale of a real-life slaying in 1840s Toronto might not seem at first glance to resonate with our own times, but there are huge themes explored here \u2013 suspicion of immigrants, abortion, even democracy itself, in the shape of class-war rebellion \u2013 that could not be more relevant. Atwood is a true visionary, as was shown in this year\u2019s Emmy-magnet adaptation of her 1986 novel The Handmaid\u2019s Tale: but, crucially, if Handmaid showed what could happen to women in the future, Alias Grace, dramatised in six parts, shows what did happen to them in the past. Which might make it sound all rather solemnly worthy-preachy, for which my apologies. It\u2019s not: it is utterly, splendidly watchable, and as much fun as anything about a jailed killer has any right to be. The framing is relatively simple: Irish immigrant housemaid Grace Marks, in prison for having aided in the murder of her master and his housekeeper, begins a wary relationship with the jail\u2019s new doctor, an early head doctor who for once doesn\u2019t want to strap her like a rat in electrodes or nail her to a chair, but simply listen to her story. The languidly pretty young doc listens away, and it\u2019s quite a story: Grace, tenderly quilting throughout \u2013 and goodness we do learn much about quilting and the differences between a Job\u2019s tears pattern and an old maid\u2019s puzzle; it\u2019s actually entrancing \u2013 is by turns caustic, slippery and endearingly honest as we watch her life opened up in lengthy flashbacks. She is, it turns out, an unreliable narrator \u2013 Atwood, smartly, gave no pat answers as to Grace\u2019s guilt \u2013 but you\u2019ll have head-scratching fun teasing out the lies from the truth, so seamlessly have they been together sewn into the patchwork. Yet some truths are self-evident \u2013 the sea voyage on which her mother dies, the decks slippery with vomitus; the near-love affair with spirited servant Mary Whitney, who bleeds to death after a botched abortion. It\u2019s a Canada-heavy, female-heavy production. Alongside (obviously) Atwood, the adapter is Canadian actor/director/activist Sarah Polley, the director Mary Harron (American Psycho), and it is quite gorgeously realised, the landscapes and leaves and brutality. The entire cast are seldom less than enthrallingly good, but the best young Canadian involved is Sarah Gadon, who interprets Grace throughout with, somehow, a timorous yet impertinent and, ultimately, life-loving\u2026 grace. I defy anyone to end this series not a little in love with Gadon\u2019s Grace, be she murderess or not. Quilty or not quilty. In a later episode, Grace quizzes another servant, Sally, about rumours over the suitability (harmfulness/touchiness) of her next master. \u201cNothing the world at large would call harm,\u201d Sally replies: infuriatingly patchworked nonsense, said to a lass who\u2019s just seen her best friend die, leaking blood, woefully inseminated by a posh, pampered prick with whom she was unaccountably in love. In our appallingly febrile times, it\u2019s an essential reminder of real harm, and the principles of gutsy feminism, Atwood-style, than which there are few better. A brief word about music: the score here, by Jeff and older brother Mychael Danna, only serves to emphasise, never to intrude; much is genuinely beautiful. There has been much online wheedling about Hans Zimmer\u2019s \u201cintrusive\u201d score for the other obvious highlight of the week, Blue Planet II. I didn\u2019t really notice it, which is \u2013 sorry, Mr Z \u2013 pretty much the point. To me, wrapped and rapt in the wrasses, or the orcas slapping herring, or the dancing surfing dolphins, or simply the tower-block waves crashing, slo-mo ethereal, off New Zealand, this, and (crucially) the story of its filming, was magnificent enough to defy all criticism other than the magnificently picky. Wasn\u2019t that four-millionth Norway herring slightly out of focus? It\u2019s like people criticising Leonardo because he couldn\u2019t play the spoons. Some people must simply wake every morning with their only goal being to take offence. There will possibly be a cure for it. Hidden inside an otherwise rather annoying \u2013 jaunty music, whizzy graphics, sigh, we\u2019re old enough to be trusted with facts rather than looky-looky shiny-shiny coin-coin \u2013 Trust Me, I\u2019m a Doctor, a one-off dealing with mental health, there was a tiny section in which surgeon and author Gabriel Weston revealed astonishing advances \u2013 a breakthrough finding based on entirely medical rather than psychological symptoms \u2013 in the treatment of schizophrenia and, quite possibly, depression. Elsewhere, the ever-dependable Michael Mosley took charge of a rather decently wide study into why one in six in this country is currently suffering depression and/or anxiety. There were nearly 70m antidepressants prescribed last year in the UK. Which makes me gloomy. Overwhelmingly, people blamed stress. The answers are harder to find. Can you \u201ceat yourself happy\u201d? A resounding \u201cno\u201d to this, yay. Is social media to blame? A limp \u201cno\u201d, yet the jury\u2019s still out. Out of three stress-busting experiments (gardening, yoga, mindfulness), calibrated with care over weeks, with cortisol levels in the saliva measured to gauge effectiveness, it emerged that \u201cmindfulness\u201d was the out-and-out winner. Cue bafflement, but maybe I\u2019ll give it a go. Yet maybe not, life\u2019s too short and I\u2019m an atheist. I find walking on long beaches and listening to Radio Stupid Euan a help. Two comedies I didn\u2019t find room for last week. Bounty Hunters, Jack Whitehall\u2019s crime/revenge fantasy, is grand fun. There\u2019s an obvious yet still delicious frisson to be had in the juxtaposition of Rosie Perez\u2019s angry Nuyorican finding herself in Wimbledon with Whitehall, his tiny electric car and his PhD in Flemish tapestry: much class war, some laughs, more missed chances. Man Down, the Greg Davies vehicle, is ultimately funnier, more surreal, more grown-up. It\u2019s suddenly struck me that the title (and the titles, which feature Davies as a puppet, having his strings suddenly cut) is double-edged: it\u2019s a rejoinder to being told to \u201cman up\u201d. Scatological, and scattergun in parts, he\u2019s aided by a tremendous cast: filthy, but often filthily funny. I don\u2019t necessarily want to say that Strike Back is just a humongous squirt of rhino jizz. I would like to be able to say that this \u201chigh-octane drama based on Chris Ryan\u2019s bestsellers\u201d is, as it turns out, a subtle and wise exploration of Middle Eastern politics and legacies a timely century on from the Balfour Declaration, in which a sharp team of defenders of western values engages with history rather than shooting the bejesus out of it. But it is, actually, a humongous squirt of gung-ho rhino jizz, Rambo with a nasal estuary accent."
"23||Theo Clinkard: This Bright Field review \u2013 up close and emotionalThere\u2019s a deceptive simplicity to Theo Clinkard\u2019s choreography. It\u2019s never just about the human shapes on stage \u2013 there\u2019s always an emotional dimension in play. This Bright Field, Clinkard\u2019s most recent work, is full of visual pleasures and surprises, but his overriding preoccupation is with the transmission of feeling. The piece is in two halves. In the first the audience are invited on stage, where 12 dancers in practice clothes are improvising to James Keane\u2019s soundtrack, which is sometimes calm, sometimes thunderous. The dancers work in pairs, intimately exploring each others\u2019 physicality. As they do so, stage flats are wheeled among them so that every member of the surrounding audience has a differently edited experience. Clinkard\u2019s purpose here seems to be to liberate us from any search for objective meaning that might short-circuit our connection to the performers. As he asks in the programme: \u201cWhen we see the dancers using touch only inches from us, can it engage our own touch sense memory?\u201d For the second half of the piece we take our places in the auditorium. Our experience of the three-part dance that follows is coloured by the fact that we have already acquired a certain closeness to the dancers. They now appear costumed in shades of blue, executing stop-go interactions of varying complexity, and then for an extended passage dance together naked. There is no hierarchy in play here, but an extended solo by Leah Marojevic offers a rush of sheer delight. Halting and stuttering, falling and turning, blissfully serene in her nakedness, Marojevic transmits a fallible and unmediated joy that is surely the essence of Clinkard\u2019s intention. The piece winds up with Keane playing live percussion as the dancers return clothed in Rike Z\u00f6llner\u2019s splendidly odd costumes (imagine avant-garde samurai, in pink). This time the dance is one of unfettered celebration. The dancers leap and kick, initially with grand formality. They then embark on an improvised frenzy in the course of which they tear off their bulky padded costumes and caper gleefully around the stage. They\u2019re all strong performers, but more importantly in this context they\u2019re generous ones. Having established a direct emotional current with us, they make sure that we leave with smiles on our faces."
"1||Warm relations as Turnbull and Ardern stow differences in chilly binHas there ever been a visit from a New Zealand dignitary more anticipated or fraught than this one? And has there ever been a prime minister more in need of the reflected glow of Jacindamania than Malcolm Turnbull? Bundled into the tight confines of Kirribilli House on a wet November morning in Sydney, a largish press pack tried not to catch cold while Australian PM Turnbull did his best to warm a relationship that has recently turned chilly. Australia and New Zealand, Turnbull said after his first \u201ccandid\u201d meeting with his new counterpart Jacinda Ardern, have been \u201cpartners in freedom\u2019s cause forever\u201d. The two countries \u201ctrust each other totally\u201d, and their two leaders get on \u201cvery well\u201d. \u201cWe\u2019re family,\u201d he insisted. \u201cQuite literally,\u201d Ardern agreed. They are not, quite literally, family, but the metaphor still seems apt. Just as you can\u2019t choose your family, Turnbull has precious little say over who gets elected on the other side of the ditch. Barnaby Joyce might argue that it\u2019s less clear the arrangement works both ways \u2013 but, as Ardern seemed to intimate, when it comes to family it\u2019s often best to say nothing at all. In any event, those halcyon days kayaking in Sydney Harbour with John Key seemed particularly far away as the rain fell on Sunday. Asked whether she had raised with Turnbull Julie Bishop\u2019s comments before the New Zealand election \u2013 that Australia would find it \u201cvery hard to build trust\u201d with NZ Labour if it won government after it involved itself in the issue of Barnaby Joyce\u2019s citizenship \u2013 Ardern spoke like someone determined to avoid another punch-up at Christmas lunch. \u201cThey weren\u2019t raised,\u201d she told the press. \u201cI think that speaks to the strength of the relationship. I don\u2019t see those events of the past being relevant to our current relationship, which I see as being strong.\u201d And on that whole citizenship thing? \u201cI would contend that it actually has absolutely nothing to do with New Zealand and nor has it ever had anything to do with New Zealand,\u201d Ardern said. Indeed. It\u2019s hard to find quite the right way to describe the Turnbull government\u2019s relationship with chaos, but the low-key sense of anticipation that seemed to hang around Kirribilli House as puddles formed on the presumably important floorboards seems to come close. From the Manus Island refugee calamity, into which Kevin Andrews saw fit to insert himself on Sunday, to New Zealand\u2019s hand-wringing over investor state dispute settlement clauses in the gaffer-taped Trans-Pacific Partnership, and the aforementioned (but unmentionable) diplomatic snafu over citizenship, the Tasman seems all of a sudden to be filled with underwater mines. Of course Ardern didn\u2019t so much win her election as wrangle the result into something resembling a government \u2013 which in today\u2019s electoral politics seems about the best anyone can hope for. And in lieu of kayaking, it was perhaps something the two of them could genuinely bond over."
"15||Women & Power: A Manifesto by Mary Beard \u2013 reviewThis book is a mere slip of a thing: at 115 pages, small enough to fit into the most diminutive of bags or even (should you be in striding out mood) the pocket of an overcoat. But size, in this instance, is irrelevant. There are two things you need to know about it. The first is that what Mary Beard has to say is powerful: here are more than a few pretty useful stones for the slingshots some of us feel we must carry with us everywhere we go right now. The second is that most of its power, if not all, lies in its author\u2019s absolute refusal to make anything seem too simple. Even as she tries to be concise and easy on the ear \u2013 the book is adapted from two lectures, one given at the British Museum in 2014, and the other earlier this year \u2013 Beard knows that the matters with which she is concerned are extremely complicated. Before she arms you, then, she makes you think. In this sense, if no other, Women &amp; Power deserves to take its place alongside Kate Millett\u2019s Sexual Politics, the text that first suggested literature as a medium for consciousness-raising. Beard\u2019s primary subject is female silence; she hopes to take a \u201clong view on the culturally awkward relationship between the voice of women and the public sphere of speech-making, debate and comment\u201d, the better to get beyond \u201cthe simple diagnosis of misogyny that we tend a bit lazily to fall back on\u201d. Calling out misogyny isn\u2019t, she understands, the same thing as explaining it, and it\u2019s only by doing the latter that we\u2019re likely ever to find an effective means of combating it. The question is: where should we look for answers? Beard acknowledges that misogyny has multiple sources; its roots are deep and wide. But in this book, she looks mostly (she is a classicist, after all) at Greek and Roman antiquity, a realm that even now, she believes, casts a shadow over our traditions of public speaking, whether we are considering the timbre of a person\u2019s voice, or their authority to pronounce on any given subject. Personally, I might have found this argument a bit strained a month ago; 3,000 years lie between us and Homer\u2019s Odyssey, which is where she begins, with Telemachus effectively telling his mother Penelope to \u201cshut up\u201d. But reading it in the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal, it seems utterly, dreadfully convincing. Mute women; brutal men; shame as a mechanism for control; androgyny and avoidance as a strategy for survival. On every page, bells ring too loudly for comfort. Through the example of Telemachus we learn that silencing the female was once an essential part of growing up as a man \u2013 though shouting at a woman was only one way of achieving it. In Ovid\u2019s Metamorphosis, Io is turned by Jupiter into a cow, and Echo\u2019s voice reduced to a mere instrument for repeating the words of others; when the young princess Philomela is raped, her tongue is cut out, to prevent her denouncing her attacker. Women who did speak in the forum were barely female at all; rather, they were \u201cunnatural freaks\u201d. A first-century Roman anthologist mentions one called Maesia, who successfully defended herself in the courts only \u201cbecause she really had a man\u2019s nature\u201d. Beard urges us not to see this \u201cmuteness\u201d simply as a reflection of women\u2019s more general disempowerment in the classical world. Their exclusion from public speech was, she writes, \u201cactive and loaded\u201d. Their voices were subversive, a threat to the state. Thus was the idea of gendered speech established. If the ancients disliked the sound of the female voice, so high-pitched and strident, in the 21st century terms such as \u201cwhine\u201d still tend to be reserved for women. Does this matter? Beard thinks that it does. Such language underpins an idiom that, almost without our noticing it, acts to remove the authority (and when necessary the humour) from what women have to say. In other words, no one hears us even when we do speak \u2013 just like the woman in the Punch cartoon she also mentions (\u201cThat\u2019s an excellent suggestion, Miss Triggs. Perhaps one of the men here would like to make it\u201d). What I relish about Beard\u2019s approach is that once she has told us all this \u2013 I am not a classicist, so some of it was new to me \u2013 she doesn\u2019t simply sink down into disapproval and hand-wringing (the fatal flaw of so many recent feminist texts). She wants to know: how can we be heard? And her answers are radical. Why should we settle only for exploiting the status quo \u2013 for instance, by training our voices, as Margaret Thatcher did? Progress, if it is ever to happen, will require a fundamental rethink of the nature of spoken authority, \u201cand what constitutes it, and how we have learned to hear it where we do\u201d. Women are not only going to have to be \u201cresituated\u201d on the inside of power; it may be that power itself has to be redefined. What will such a redefinition involve? She talks of the \u201cdecoupling\u201d of power from prestige, a bifurcation that will mean thinking about power as an attribute rather than as a possession; of the power of followers as well as of leaders. All of this is exciting, and full of possibility (though threatening to some, of course). But Beard isn\u2019t about to drink her own Kool-Aid. She is nothing if not pragmatic, her utterances grounded in practicalities as well as learning. Just as she finds time in her book to attempt to understand, as well as to condemn, the misogyny of Twitter \u2013 some of the abuse is, she is convinced, the result of the false promise it made to put people directly in touch with those in power; women are not the only ones who feel \u201cvoiceless\u201d \u2013 so she is keen to remind the reader of the gloom that hangs all about. Don\u2019t get too perky, she instructs, even as she works to build her case. Some things are hard, if not impossible, to cast off. Should we be in any doubt about the terrifying extent to which the exclusion of women from power is culturally embedded, let alone unsure of the continued strength of classical ways of formulating and justifying it, we have only to look at the Trump campaign in 2016, in which he was depicted, after Cellini\u2019s bronze, as Perseus holding up the severed head of Hillary Clinton as Medusa. His supporters could buy this image on T-shirts and tote bags, coffee cups and laptop covers \u2013 and doubtless many of them did, desperate for the monster to be slain in their own minds, even before they had approached the ballot box. Women &amp; Power: A Manifesto by Mary Beard is published by Profile (\u00a37.99). To order a copy for \u00a36.79 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 68466. Free UK p&amp;p over \u00a310, online orders only. Phone orders min p&amp;p of \u00a31.99"
"5||Corbyn pledges to make a stand on \u2018degrading\u2019 abuse cultureJeremy Corbyn will vow to overturn the \u201cwarped and degrading culture\u201d that has led to claims of sexual misconduct in Westminster, as he concedes that Labour may have seriously mishandled past allegations. In an attempt to seize control of the abuse crisis that has hit both the Tories and Labour, he will vow to be part of a campaign to \u201cstand up and say: no more\u201d. He will say that perpetrators of harassment have been \u201chiding in plain sight\u201d, but warn that a culture change is needed in Westminster, the media, schools and workplaces across the country. The Labour leader will add that the flurry of sexual harassment claims heralds \u201ca moment of real change\u201d. Corbyn will also admit his party has failed in the past, after revelations that a prominent activist, Bex Bailey, was told by a party official that reporting she had been raped at a Labour event could damage her career. \u201cIt is not enough to say: this is wrong, then only tinker with procedures,\u201d the Labour leader will tell the party\u2019s north-west regional conference . \u201cHow we respond to this moment will shape the way we live our lives. We need to make a fundamental shift in the balance of power, and transform the way our society works. \u201cLabour is committed not just to challenging a warped and degrading culture in Westminster, and across society, but to overturning it. This week we appointed a leading barrister to investigate if and how the party got it so painfully wrong in the case of Bex Bailey. We are not afraid to turn the spotlight on ourselves.\u201d His intervention will be welcomed by senior MPs, who have been keen to see Corbyn make a clear statement that there would be a zero-tolerance approach to harassment claims. Some had been concerned about his reluctance to answer questions about claims against Kelvin Hopkins, an ally of Corbyn who has been suspended after allegations of misconduct were made against him. The allegations were made by Ava Etemadzadeh. She said that following a Labour event in 2013, the MP hugged her very tightly and rubbed himself against her. Hopkins strongly denies the allegations. It is understood the complaints were handed to the Labour whips\u2019 office in 2015, when Rosie Winterton was chief whip. Winterton subsequently made the leader\u2019s office aware of the claims. However, when Corbyn appointed Hopkins to the shadow cabinet last year, the whips were not asked their opinion. One senior Labour figure said: \u201cI don\u2019t doubt that Jeremy and the leader\u2019s office now fully realise the seriousness of this, but it would appear it was not taken sufficiently seriously at the time.\u201d The Observer has also been told by several sources that another Corbyn ally bragged about how his friendship with the Labour leader allowed him to get closer to women. There were also multiple claims that he asked a senior female party figure whether she would \u201ctwerk against him\u201d. However, no official complaint has been made to the party. Jess Phillips, chair of the women\u2019s parliamentary Labour party, said she wanted Corbyn to be \u201cfront and centre\u201d in condemning abuse and taking action. \u201cHe needs to be clear that there will be zero tolerance of this kind of behaviour to show there is no fear or favour of either members of parliament or members of the Labour movement,\u201d she said. While the Tories are suffering resignations over sexual misconduct, Labour has been unable to take any advantage due to a number of allegations against its own MPs. These started with claims that Jared O\u2019Mara, MP for Sheffield Hallam, had verbally abused women. The serious allegations lodged by Bailey, together with a behind-the-scenes campaign by senior female MPs, has led to the announcement of a more robust system for supporting the victims of harassment within the party. Under the plans, an independent specialist organisation will offer advice and support to anyone affected. The body will also offer people a \u201cfirst step\u201d for reporting any allegations and navigating the party\u2019s procedures. Staff and members of the party\u2019s national executive committee will receive formal training in dealing with the cases. MPs are keen that the new system gets up and running quickly. However, some in the party believe it does not go far enough because complaints will not be investigated by an independent body. Jasmin Beckett, a member of Labour\u2019s ruling national executive committee, is among those to express concern. Meanwhile, Clive Lewis, seen as a potential future leader, has denied a claim that he groped a woman at the Labour conference in September. The party is investigating a formal complaint against him. Former Foreign Office minister Ivan Lewis, MP for Bury South, has denied he had made non-consensual sexual advances toward women."
"11||Gordon Brown says Pentagon misled UK over case for Iraq invasionThe US defence department knew that Saddam Hussein did not have weapons of mass destruction but kept Britain in the dark, according to an explosive new claim from Gordon Brown. In an extraordinary allegation, the former prime minister states that a secret US intelligence report into Iraq\u2019s military capabilities was never passed to Britain and could have changed the course of events. The revelation leads Brown to conclude that the \u201cwar could not be justified as a last resort and invasion cannot now be seen as a proportionate response\u201d. He adds that the evidence in question was never examined by the Chilcot inquiry into the Iraq war, which concluded that Britain chose to join the invasion before \u201cpeaceful options for disarmament\u201d had been exhausted. Brown\u2019s intervention will reopen the debate about Britain\u2019s decision to join the US-led invasion of Iraq. Tony Blair used the assertion that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction to argue that Britain needed to join the military action. Brown makes the claim in his new book, My Life, Our Times, published this week. He writes that there was a \u201crush to war\u201d in March 2003, adding that he asks himself \u201cover and over whether I could have made more of a difference before that fateful decision was taken\u201d. He said that as chancellor he had little more access to intelligence than other cabinet ministers, but was reassured by MI6 that evidence about WMDs was well-founded. However, having reviewed the evidence since leaving office, he writes that he now believes \u201cwe were all misled on the existence of WMDs\u201d. Brown points to a crucial set of papers from September 2002, commissioned by the then US defence secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, and held by the US defence department, which was leaked last year. According to Brown, it made clear that evidence of \u201cthe existence of WMDs was weak, even negligible and in key areas nonexistent\u201d. \u201cIt is astonishing that none of us in the British government ever saw this American report,\u201d Brown writes. \u201cIt is now clear how forcibly this report challenged the official view: \u2018We\u2019ve struggled to estimate the unknown \u2026 We range from 0% to about 75% knowledge on various aspects of their [Iraq\u2019s WMD] program\u2019,\u201d the report stated. \u201cIt conceded that US knowledge of the Iraqi nuclear weapons programme was based largely \u2013 perhaps 90% of it \u2013 on analysis of imprecise intelligence. These assessments, the report said, relied \u2018heavily on analytic assumptions and judgment rather than hard evidence. The evidentiary base is particularly sparse for Iraqi nuclear programs.\u2019 \u201cThe Iraqis, it was reported, \u2018lack the precursors for sustained nerve-agent production\u2019, confirming that US intelligence could not identify any Iraqi sites producing the final chemical agent. And as for missiles and the Iraqis\u2019 ability to target countries such as the UK with them, which was to be the subject of dramatic claims only a few weeks later, Rumsfeld was informed: \u2018We doubt all processes are in place to produce longer-range missiles\u2019. \u201cThis highly confidential US evidence was a refutation not only of the claim that Iraq was producing WMDs but also of their current capability to do so.\u201d Brown states that had the evidence been shared, history could have been different. \u201cI am convinced that if resolutions of the United Nations are approved unanimously and repeatedly they have to be upheld if we are to have a safe and stable world order,\u201d he writes. \u201cOn this basis, Saddam Hussein\u2019s continuing failure to comply with them justified international action against him. \u201cThe question is whether it required war in March 2003. If I am right that somewhere within the American system the truth about Iraq\u2019s lack of weapons was known, then we were not just misinformed but misled on the critical issue of WMDs. \u201cGiven that Iraq had no usable chemical, biological or nuclear weapons that it could deploy and was not about to attack the coalition, then two tests of a just war were not met: war could not be justified as a last resort and invasion cannot now be seen as a proportionate response.\u201d The former prime minister also reveals that the moment he took office in 2007, he planned to pull British troops out of Iraq well before the Americans. He eventually withdrew troops in April 2009, while the US stayed until December 2011. \u201cAt this time I made another decision: not to use our future departure from Iraq as an occasion to draw a contrast with Tony or score points against him either,\u201d he writes."
"20||The pop-up crafts shop helping war-torn communitiesFrom a small corner window display on London\u2019s Baker Street, Edmund le Brun and Flore de Taisne are trying to help the victims of war. Their pop-up shop, Ishkar, which is also online, sells crafts from conflict zones. Among the items on display are gorgeous hand-blown glasses in green, lapis lazuli blue and turquoise, intricate kilim rugs, fine-woven camel hair shawls, earrings and necklaces and knives. The couple, both 27, came up with the idea for the business in Kabul, where they were living when they met. Edmund was working for Turquoise Mountain Foundation, the NGO founded by Rory Stewart, now a Conservative MP, which aims to preserve and restore old buildings and businesses. Flore, who grew up in Paris, was working as a consultant for aid agencies. \u201cMy job was to set up craft businesses and find ways to grow them, so I was working closely with local artisans,\u201d says Edmund. \u201cThey\u2019re highly skilled, energetic entrepreneurs, which is impressive in itself, given the circumstances. But they have very few ways of connecting to market. Ishkar is a direct response to that, connecting talented craftsmen with people who have the money to buy their products.\u201d In late 2015, as a trial run, Edmund and Flore ordered a batch of cufflinks made by craftsmen in Kabul, to sell as Christmas presents. They quickly sold out, so they set about sourcing a wider range for the website and pop-up, which launched earlier this year. When we meet, they are waiting on a shipment of 4,000 more glasses, and crossing their fingers that not too many will have shattered on the arduous journey from Kabul. The glassware is emblematic of what they want to achieve with the brand. \u201cGlass has been made like this in Afghanistan for 2,000 years,\u201d says Edmund. \u201cBut the country has been at war for the past 40 years, so there are zero tourists, and no local market because it has been swamped by cheap Chinese glass. There\u2019s only one traditional glass workshop left, which is where all our products come from.\u201d Part of the problem, he adds, is that for the local market, smooth, regular Chinese-made glass is more fashionable \u2013 and cheaper than the traditional styles. As well as supporting the craftsmen directly, a portion of proceeds from some of their lines goes to the Turquoise Mountain Foundation and other charities. They also partner with NGOs on the ground if appropriate. \u201cI know certain people might read about this kind of initiative and roll their eyes,\u201d adds Edmund, \u201cbut Ishkar is the result of three years\u2019 hard experience at the sharp end of development in Afghanistan.\u201d The next phase of the business will be to source products from other conflict zones. They already have a small number of items from Syria, but the civil war makes it tricky to know exactly where the money will end up. The current focus is on Mali, where traditional businesses have been hollowed out by the civil war since 2012. \u201cThe situation there is worse than in Afghanistan,\u201d says Flore. \u201cBefore the crisis, Timbuktu would receive 20-30,000 tourists a year. The craftsmen were relatively well paid, earning between \u20ac10-15,000 per year. But while they\u2019re highly skilled they are not educated, so as soon as that business stopped they were left with nothing. To sustain their families, many turned to militant Islamist groups or smugglers. \u201cAnother difficulty in Mali is that the supply connections are really poor, so it\u2019s hard to get materials,\u201d she adds. Textiles are the Malian speciality, but here, too, local demand has dropped off. \u201cWhen we went to see them they were making name bracelets, which we had no interest in,\u201d she says. \u201cWe had to ask them to show us the things they were making before: the high-quality embroidery, clothes and fabrics.\u201d \u201cThese places have incredible traditions of making,\u201d says Edmund. \u201cBut their stories are not heard in the west, and people here have no access to them.\u201d With Ishkar, he and Flore hope to help change that. ishkar.com"
"20||Brain game: how we see colour \u2013 in fireworks and on screensFireworks may have been invented in 7th century China but we are still trying to improve the chemical technology behind them. Unlike colour representation in digital technology, fireworks work on the eye and hence brain in an entirely different way. Pyrotechnicians use chemicals to make the colours: strontium carbonate (red), barium chloride (green) and sodium nitrate (yellow). Yet our visual processing system means that we can\u2019t distinguish between these colours and ones that appear on the screen. If you, like Newton, were to pass the light through a prism to see the spectrum of colours, you\u2019d be amazed at the purity of the light created by fireworks compared to the synthesised digital version. Screens use combinations of red, green and blue light (RGB) to make a particular colour. It\u2019s a trick of the brain\u2019s colour processing systems that we can\u2019t tell the difference between this and the pure chemical colour. But maybe knowing that you\u2019re seeing real colour when you watch fireworks live this year, as opposed to watching the TV, will enhance the experience after all. Dr Daniel Glaser is director of Science Gallery at King\u2019s College London"
"20||The night I introduced Jean-Michel Basquiat to the worldWe were in the middle of a party in my New York loft when this forlorn, waifish street guy with Mohawk hair came up to me and said, \u201cI am SAMO and I would like to do some graffiti.\u201d I\u2019d never seen him before but he had this little spark in his eye so I handed him a can of spray paint said, \u201cDo it!\u201d And for the first time the world was introduced to Jean-Michel Basquiat. It was April 1978 and I was holding the party as a launch event in my 5,000sq ft apartment called the Canal Zone for a couple of other graffiti artists. I identified with street art and felt the artists needed exposure. This event incorporated live music, the walls were set up for graffiti art with large, seamless rolls of paper and we had a video crew to film everything. So they were on hand to record Jean-Michel as he sprayed Lee Harvey Oswald, Coca-Cola, General Melonry and finally SAMO, his trademark. The crowd went wild when they saw that. Up until that point no one knew who SAMO was but the cryptic messages and political agitation had caught the imagination. As an artist, I had painted murals and tableaux and as a working-class kid growing up in 1950s Britain, I identified with Jean-Michel\u2019s status as an outsider \u2013 for a while I was also on the streets. I also admired him because he did not stick to a formula. He did not even know the formula because he had no formal training. I felt he was a bit like a beatnik and we really hit it off. He actually moved into my loft when he struck up a relationship with my assistant, Jennifer Stein. Jean-Michel was a natural, very anxious to try things out. Unfortunately that\u2019s why he got so heavily into drugs. He needed the adulation. Girls wanted to sleep with him. He was so charismatic, people would hang on to him and his few words. He became the fashionable artist but the fashion world helped to kill him, helped to destroy him. When he died I remember driving up to the service on Lexington Avenue with Debbie Harry and Chris Stein and it hit me. All these people turned up gleefully claiming how close they were to him. His death launched a whole new set of careers. Now I don\u2019t even have that first piece of art to remember him by. Just a few months after that show my loft burned down and all the art with it."
"18||Strong, powerful eyeshadowPrabal Gurung\u2019s autumn/winter 2017 collection was inspired by the women\u2019s rights movement. The models were styled to look \u201creally strong and powerful\u201d, without \u201cconventionally beautiful make-up\u201d. This meant angled slashes of bright colour like a little Matisse cutout in green, red, orange and blue, extending below the brow, a little bit space age, a little bit punk. It\u2019s literally an independent streak. Get the look Inglot Ms Butterfly eyeshadow \u00a35, inglotuk.com Shiseido Instroke eyeliner \u00a322, harrods.com Korres Volcanic Minerals in Purple \u00a39, lookfantastic.com MAC pencil in Landscape Green \u00a314.50, maccosmetics.co.uk Sleek MakeUP i-Art Liquid Eye Colour \u00a36.99, superdrug.com YSL Shocking Eyeliner in Deep Green \u00a325.50, yslbeauty.co.uk Trinny London Eye2Eye in Sun \u00a318, trinnylondon.com Now\u2019s the time to\u2026 Get surreal. This is Man Ray for NARS, a holiday collection of imaginative colours emblazoned with arty touches from Man Ray\u2019s witty, odd and beautiful work (narscosmetics.co.uk). Email Eva at e.wiseman@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @EvaWiseman"
"18||Nostalgia for the 90s and Kate Moss throw-outs: what to buy this weekSilver service It\u2019s 25 years since REM released Automatic for the People. That\u2019s 25 years since you slow danced to Everybody Hurts at a disco, and cried under the buffet table. To celebrate, the band have reissued it with a wealth of previously unreleased material along with a book and companion Blu-ray. Automatic for the People \u00a379.99, hmv.com Gold standard J Crew has launched a new affordable jewellery collection inspired by heirlooms. Each piece is 14k gold-plated sterling silver and priced at under \u00a3100. Hand it down, or keep it all for yourself. J Crew jewellery From \u00a349.50, jcrew.com/uk At home with Boden Here\u2019s your chance to get the full Boden experience, with the opening of their second ever store. The space in London\u2019s Chelsea feels, says founder Johnnie Boden, \u201clike you\u2019re walking into my home\u201d. And walking out with all his stuff, presumably. Pink jacket, \u00a3130, and trousers, \u00a380 boden.co.uk Mr clean This men\u2019s grooming collection has been made in England with all-natural extracts, botanicals, vitamins and essential oils. And doesn\u2019t it look macho! SCRUBD soap \u00a317, scrubd.com Good looks Here\u2019s a new vegan beauty brand that\u2019s aiming to redefine the industry standard for ethical cosmetics. Enjoy Kester Black\u2019s divine nail colours without a flake of guilt. Kester Black varnish \u00a312.50, trouva.com Famous fleas Vestiaire Collective has partnered with supermodel Toni Garrn to host her third annual Supermodel Charity Flea Market. Kate Moss et al are selling their cast-offs online this week. Charity Flea Market Until 12 November, vestiairecollective.com Kitchen table book A history of the kitchen in 70 objects, from the salad spinner to the wok. How have they changed the way we cook, eat and live? The Modern Kitchen \u00a320, Quadrille"
"20||Christmas sandwiches, our newest Yuletide traditionYou can\u2019t stop time, people. The wheel is turning and it will continue to turn, autumn becoming winter, bodies becoming dust, until Christmas is here and with it that clove-scented reminder that another year is almost over and death comes for all. Is this why we choose to lean on tradition, on comforts that mean even as time passes we have something that always remains the same? Except, like a fantasy that gets dimmer with every use, a photocopy of a photocopy, the traditions of our childhoods are both too precious and too shitty to do their job any more. We must have turkey on Christmas Day, and wear the bobbly slipper socks, and watch the sad episode of The Royle Family and have a fight about the price of things, because that is what we have always done so that is what we do. But as old traditions wear out, new ones emerge to patch them up. In recent years the Christmas sandwich (formerly something you\u2019d cobble together in an old roll, pissed at midnight) has become one such tradition, its main selling points being that it exists for office workers rather than families, and that they can enjoy it from November. To work in an office is to dance on the head of a single question from 9am, and that question is, \u201cWhat\u2019s for lunch?\u201d We are institutionalised to the point that our stomach growls sync up, and this combined with Christmas coming means the annual announcement that Pret\u2019s menu has bells on it again causes a sort of mass delirium. The absolute state of my colleagues when I piled this season\u2019s sandwiches at the end of our bank of desks this week. It was as if a unicorn had climbed up there on top of the magazines and given birth, and the babies were singing The Greatest Love Of All. Every year the supermarkets get more and more creative, a Yorkshire pudding popped in here, a jus ladled on there. M&amp;S has done one that looks like a festive breast, and it is charming. Some are simply vile, a brioche of farts microwaved on an airplane; some have a strange bitterness to them, as if seasoned with crayons. Some are nice. In short: 1) Pret does the best vegetarian one this year, mainly because it\u2019s the only one not bleeding cranberry sauce. 2) M&amp;S has tried the hardest with its tit bun \u2013 it has tiny stars embedded in the top, and the filling is modest but tasty, and all these things are appreciated. 3) Greggs\u2019s turkey option is genuinely lovely, if basic, but aren\u2019t we all at this time of year? 4) Oh my God, there is one redacted wrap that tastes like Ribena baklava, dense and red, the consistency of the turd of a supermarket Santa who\u2019s eaten only pudding since the clocks went back, and this I wouldn\u2019t recommend. As I digested my fourth sandwich, teeth grimly grinding the turkey into Christmas paste, eyes glazed like a ham, I started to regret the whole project. Because what became clear about the effect of the new tradition for Christmas sandwiches every November is that by trying to replicate the experience of a family meal at our desk, we\u2019re inoculating ourselves against taste, a series of festive flu jabs. By eating these sandwiches, essentially bread, mayo, space meat, jam, bit of old sausage, mayo, bread, we\u2019re teaching our poor mouths that this is what a Christmas dinner should taste like. Eat them like I have, and by the time 24 December comes round, and you\u2019ve wheeled your suitcase on to the train and woken the next morning in a blow-up bed under a Scott and Charlene poster, and put on those bobbly slipper socks you got in your stocking the year your dad took redundancy, and sat down at the table with all its leaves extended, in front of an actual plate of Christmas dinner, you\u2019ll be a bit, well\u2026 A bit, \u201cWould you mind awfully if I slopped a tablespoon of jam on top, crushed it in the fridge for 24 hours under a duvet of mayonnaise and ate it outside on a bench?\u201d The problem with festive traditions is how quickly we leap to embrace them, to catch, pin and repeat them in order to, what, stuff up the huge holes in our winter psyches? Create meaning between cold bread? After eating 5,000 calories in white meat and brie, Christmas sandwiches are threatening to kill Christmas for me. So I\u2019m cutting down on traditions \u2013 no cranberry till January. While I do enjoy the stuffing, I miss the joy. Email Eva at e.wiseman@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @EvaWiseman"
"19||The eco guide to big ethicsAt a recent event held by the outdoor clothing brand Patagonia I detected a sheepish air. Nothing to do with eco wool, but rumours that the company was about to surpass a $1bn turnover. In the normal run of capitalism these thresholds are celebrated. But Patagonia was founded by Yvon Chouinard to sell (greener) apparel to fund the environmental agenda. Always alert to the paradoxes of green consumption, Patagonia took out newspaper ads on Black Friday (the world\u2019s biggest shopping day) in 2011 asking consumers not to buy their product. Personally I find Patagonia\u2019s success energising. Given their efforts to mitigate our consumerist impact, I\u2019d rather market share went to them than brands without discernible values. But when a pet ethical brand joins the big league it can leave loyal consumers in a spin \u2013 especially when that ethical stalwart is acquired by a monster mainstream corporation. Recently Ecover and Method have been acquired by SC Johnson and Pukka teas by Unilever. Is this good or bad? The jury is divided. Ethicalconsumer.org drops acquired companies down their ratings but bcorporation.net does not. Should you be concerned? It\u2019s old-fashioned advice, but check the label. You can tell the character of the brand by the certification they keep. For example Pukka is certified by FairWild and Fair for Life to ensure it uses sustainable herbs (one in five wild plant species is now under threat). Meanwhile, nearly 40% of Patagonia\u2019s ranges are now certified by US Fair Trade. These are good products with impressive back- stories that fought hard to get into your wardrobes and cupboards. If they\u2019re the best in the business at going green, I recommend sticking with them. The big picture: smog gets in your eyes Following London\u2019s introduction of a new toxicity tax (the T-charge) at the end of last month, Fog Everywhere has premiered at Camden People\u2019s Theatre in collaboration with King\u2019s College Lung Biology Group. Performed in one of the Big Smoke\u2019s pollution hotspots, this production examines the perilous effects of the air we breathe and asks what we can do about it (cptheatre.co.uk until 11 November). Well dressed: multipurpose ponchos from Wales I\u2019ve often heard those dependent on western fashion culture bemoaning the fact that there\u2019s no equivalent to the sari. The sari, you see, is inherently ethical because it can contract and expand as we do and in theory lasts a lifetime. But then I remembered the poncho. In Hay-on-Wye Julie Leonard uses British wool (from Baylen and Portland sheep woven in a Welsh mill) to create poncho designs based on Welsh traditional patterns, but with a modern twist. When you\u2019re not out and about in a poncho, they can double as a throw for a sofa or bed. Leonard has not only reinvigorated the classic poncho but also an important supply chain in Wales as her product helps to keep looms going there and create work for skilled women in rural areas. The Welsh Girl ponchos come in three children\u2019s sizes (\u00a395-\u00a3155) and three adult sizes (\u00a3255-\u00a3295). Email Lucy at lucy.siegle@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @lucysiegle"
"20||Art and soul: how sparking your creativity helps you stay wellMost of us admire creativity. Some of us also think that creative people are somehow different \u2013 obsessive, gifted, tortured in some way \u2013 a stereotype that is often perpetuated by our culture. Letting go of these ideas could allow more people to access the wellbeing benefits of creative activities, while also dispensing with a damaging mental-health myth. There is a persistent trope on screen, in books and beyond, that creativity is the result of a fated convergence between talent and mental illness or obsession, and that it is elusive, something that only a few of us can tap into. It dates back centuries, but for contemporary examples, think Carrie Mathison taking a break from her bipolar disorder medication to solve a problem in Homeland\u2019s \u201cSuper Powers\u201d episode or Javier Bardem\u2019s recent appearance as consumed poet Him in Aronofsky\u2019s film Mother! Beyond these romantic notions of art and suffering, there is a crucial link between creativity and mental health. Earlier this year a study found that GPs prescribing arts activities to some of their patients could cause a significant drop in hospital admissions. The positive impact that art therapy can have on helping returning soldiers has also been documented in recent years, providing further evidence that creativity can be therapeutic whatever your mental state. In other words, we can all benefit from using our imagination \u2013 whether it\u2019s drawing, dancing or singing, poetry or baking it\u2019s not that important. However you choose to express yourself it doesn\u2019t have to be perfect to have purpose. In The Taste of Blue Light, my novel about a 17-year-old artist called Lux whose life unravels after she suffers a blackout, I wanted to explore a setting where art is everything, but through the eyes of a character whose mental health makes living up to that dogma all but impossible. In writing the book while unwell myself, I was forced to confront the notion that to be a legitimate creative person you must be active in your chosen artistic field every day and that art should be prioritised above all else. It\u2019s a notion that\u2019s impractical and romantic at best, and exclusionary at worst. I\u2019ve also experienced creativity\u2019s capacity to heal us first hand \u2013 writing and (unskilful) painting help me to manage migraine, synaesthesia , anxiety and obsessive thoughts. A quick poll of friends reveals two camps: the \u201cYes, I\u2019m creative\u201d people; and the \u201cI don\u2019t have a creative bone in my body\u201d group. Yet there don\u2019t have to be two separate tribes. All of us are creative every day \u2013 we take photos, find new approaches to solving problems, make jokes, tinker with recipes \u2013 but many of us don\u2019t see it that way. We need to remind ourselves that creativity can be as simple as playing or doing things differently, so that we give ourselves permission to open the door to other activities and usher in all the benefits that come with this \u2013 from time to reflect or overcoming perfectionism to communicating or simply having fun. In this way, building sandcastles or writing witty emails can be a gateway to a pottery class or keeping a journal or writing a poem. Imagination and inventiveness should be for everyone. If we let go of the idea that artists are somehow \u201cother\u201d and that we can only access that part of ourselves when under pressure, we could all be more creative. The Taste of Blue Light by Lydia Ruffles is published by Hodder, priced \u00a312.99. To order a copy for \u00a311.04, go to bookshop.theguardian.com"
"20||Game changer: what does your chosen sport say about you? \u2013 personality quizWe all know that psychology and personality play a crucial role in sport (just ask Jos\u00e9 Mourinho or Alex Ferguson). But psychologists have recently identified a link between your sport and your personality type. If you were a professional sportsperson, which sports or events would you go for? Rank the following in order of preference: a. 100m sprint b. high jump c. basketball d. football e. tennis f. rugby If you mainly ranked the individual sports (100m sprint, high jump, tennis) above the team sports (football, basketball, rugby), this is indicative of a personality trait known as openness to experience. These people are adventurous and like trying new things. If you mainly ranked the team sports above the individual sports then you are, on average, likely to be less open to experience and less energetic. These were the findings of a new study at the University of Milan, which also reported that sportspeople generally score higher on the trait of agreeableness. It also found that more successful sportspeople scored higher on conscientiousness (hence the footballer who always stays behind after training) and emotional stability. We can all think of sportspeople who \u201cbottled it\u201d under pressure. Consider, for example, most English penalty takers, and Kevin Keegan\u2019s famous 1996 rant, which demonstrated that, when it comes to mind games, Alex Ferguson will always be the master. Order a copy of Are You Smarter Than A Chimpanzee? by Ben Ambridge (Profile Books, priced \u00a312.99) for \u00a311.04 at bookshop.theguardian.com"
"20||Marvellous microgreensEven as the outdoor veg garden starts to wind down, there are still plenty of crops you can start sowing right through the winter if you turn your food-growing ambitions indoors. All you need is a windowsill to grow a whole range of weird and wonderful flavours in just a week or two, most of which are essentially \u201cunbuyable\u201d in the shops. Here\u2019s my guide to growing microgreens, probably the fastest and easiest vegetables going. Grown in an identical fashion to good, old-fashioned mustard and cress, microgreens are just a fancy name for any edible plant that is harvested and eaten at seedling stage. These can be sown in trays of potting compost or even damp cotton wool, popped on a warm, sunny windowsill and harvested as soon as they produce their first few leaves. Germination is usually rapid, pests and diseases rarely an issue and as long as you keep the potting mix from drying out, you can be eating them before you know it. Now for my tried-and-tested favourites. I love the flavour of Thai basil, whose liquorice-scented warmth is indispensable to a range of Southeast Asian foods. Sadly, this is still very tricky to hunt down in the UK, even in Asian supermarkets, so growing it at home is the best option. Like all basils it has a wonderfully intense flavour from the minute it opens its first pair of seed leaves, but I like to harvest it at the four-leaf stage to get maximum bang for my buck. The same treatment will also work for regular Italian basil, as well as the stunning purple-leaved and lemon-scented forms. Essentially any kitchen herb can be treated the same way, with coriander, parsley, dill and garlic chives being popular choices. I also love growing Japanese shiso, sometimes known as Japanese beefsteak plant, for the rich umami-meets-mixed-herb flavour of its leaves. The purple form is a real stunner on any plate, with its tiny nettle-like leaves being a real talking point for the uninitiated. If you want something really wacky however, try out any of the marigolds. Yes, normal bedding marigolds, which have long been used in their homeland of Latin America for their bright, refreshing, mint-meets-pineapple flavour. However, above all in the flavour stakes it is sweetcorn that has the rest beaten hands down. Choose seeds that have not been treated with fungicide (a pink, powdery coating) and sow these in trays in a dark cupboard. Starved of light, the leaves become soft and tender and packed with an almost unbelievable level of sweetness, as if they have been soaked in syrup. Pick at 10cm long and scatter over desserts and salads for a burst of sunny, sweetness in the dark days of winter. Email James at james.wong@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @Botanygeek"
"28||The Gourmand magazine: at the cutting edgeEarlier this year, as David Lane and Marina Tweed were putting together an issue of their biannual food magazine The Gourmand, they were pitched an idea involving snails. The premise, dreamed up by Dutch art photographers Blommers &amp; Schumm, was simple: snails like climbing things. The resulting photo story shows edible gastropods inching to the top of various household objects, including a chef\u2019s knife, some three-pronged forks and a bright red chilli. Not many food magazines would buy this idea, but The Gourmand, which publishes its number 10 issue this week, is not your average food magazine. Since launching in June 2012 it has commissioned articles about alcohol archaeology, the social status of ketchup and artist Yayoi Kusama\u2019s love of pumpkins. In one memorable piece, Italian architectural features were recreated using appropriately shaped pasta. When the snail idea came through, the editors didn\u2019t shrink away: they ran it under the headline \u201cL\u2019escar\u2026 Go!\u201d with the disclaimer: \u201cNo snails were harmed in the making of this photo story.\u201d Now one of the snail images \u2013 the one with the chef\u2019s knife \u2013 has been included in a new series of art prints reproducing images from the magazine\u2019s archives. (Each of the prints, released quarterly in batches of six, will be limited to 30 copies and cost \u00a3250.) Lane and Tweed, who live in London with their two-year-son Jacob, plus a cat named Peter, never expected the magazine to hit double figures. Now The Gourmand is distributed all over the world and has spawned a commercial offshoot called Lane &amp; Associates, working with the likes of Nike and San Pellegrino. This helps fund the magazine and keeps it relatively ad-free, allowing the editors to run oddball features about snails without worrying about commercial viability. Food and art mix regularly in The Gourmand. What prompted the pairing? \u201cWe felt there was a natural synergy between food and creativity,\u201d says Lane at the magazine\u2019s office in Stoke Newington, northeast London, just across from much-loved Turkish restaurant Mangal 1. \u201cFood is the only universal subject really\u2026 Well, I suppose everyone breathes, but it probably wouldn\u2019t make for a very interesting magazine.\u201d One inspiration was The Compleat Imbiber, published on and off between 1956 and 1992 and edited by Cyril Ray, who also wrote for The Observer. \u201cWe collected them,\u201d says Lane, \u201cthese compendiums about booze that had Kingsley Amis stories and weird bits and pieces \u2013 it didn\u2019t follow a formula.\u201d Lane and Tweed felt there was a gap in the market to do something similar, \u201cto publish nice, inspiring, creative content around food, which, surprisingly, there wasn\u2019t that much of\u201d. Approaching cultural matters through the medium of food gives The Gourmand an advantage over publications with a more direct focus. Lane mentions a feature in the new issue in which New York musicians discuss their favourite neighbourhood dumpling houses and bagel joints. \u201cIf we were just a music magazine, it would have been really hard to talk to all those people,\u201d he says, referring to competition with other music magazines and the reluctance many artists feel about discussing their work head-on. \u201cBut if you want to talk to them about food or wine, they\u2019re like, \u2018Yeah, great\u2019 \u2013 and they always end up talking about their work anyway.\u201d Though Lane and Tweed both come from design backgrounds \u2013 he ran a creative studio, she was project manager at a design and branding agency \u2013 their magazine is unmistakably the work of food obsessives. One recent feature pokes fun at cheffy flourishes such as smears, foams and dusts. Another savours nostalgic details from grand London restaurants: the lemon wrapped in muslin at Fischer\u2019s, the bright red cracker accompanying a plate of lobster at Sweetings. Grandees such as Claudia Roden and Alice Waters make appearances, as do hip young chefs such as Andr\u00e9 Chiang and Corey Lee, while recipes relating to each feature are collected at the back of every issue. The Gourmand can be wilfully self-indulgent at times, but even the most out-there pieces tend to be grounded in careful research. One photo story offering a \u201csynaesthetic journey through the world of olive oil\u201d \u2013 it features magnified slicks of extra virgin lit in various colours \u2013 was developed in consultation with an olive oil expert, who provided detailed flavour profiles for the oils of different regions. \u201cThere\u2019s so much imagery in the world which looks nice for a second on Instagram, but there\u2019s not much depth to it,\u201d says Tweed. \u201cEven if the motivation for one of our pieces is a bit fantastical or silly, we try to make sure it\u2019s got integrity.\u201d"
"29||Fishers in the City, Edinburgh: \u2018It needs a friendly whack\u2019 \u2013 restaurant reviewFishers In the City, 58 Thistle Street, Edinburgh EH2 1EN (0131 225 5109). Meal for two, including drinks and service: \u00a3100 I am many things: tall, thick of waist and big haired. One gust of wind and I can end up looking like an unmade bed. Even without the wind, I may still look like that saggy sofa you can\u2019t be bothered to throw out because of all the admin. I have never been able to slip into a room unseen. If I ring a doorbell after dark, I take four steps back after doing so, to avoid scaring the hell out of even my closest friends. If I am walking along a street late at night and there is a single person in front of me I cross to the other side, so as not to be that huge, looming presence in the shadows; the one who is terrifying until proven otherwise. I am indeed many things; easy to ignore is not one of them. And yet the woman on the front desk at Edinburgh\u2019s Fishers in the City is managing it. She could get a Masters in ignoring me. She does not look up as we come in. She is on the phone, apparently arranging a function. She is ordering 24 bottles of something, eyes only for her computer screen. It feels like a blunt calculation has been made; this caller is more valuable than the man in my peripheral vision. On and on it goes, this conversation. No one else comes. We look around the wood-lined restaurant: at the waitress restocking the glasses behind the bar on one side, at her colleague idling by a service point on the other. About seven minutes in, as she is winding up, our \u201cgreeter\u201d finally raises her eyes. She signals apology. Then the call is done, a perfunctory \u201csorry\u201d is muttered and a name asked for. It\u2019s a small thing, isn\u2019t it, this wait at the front desk? I wonder if she recalls it, even now. But that\u2019s what restaurants are: a bunch of small things, done well, or badly. Those done well slip over you, like the popping suds in a warm bubble bath. The ones done badly are pieces of Lego stepped on in the night. Boy, you remember those. Fishers in the City could be a truly terrific fish restaurant, if it weren\u2019t for the small things that aren\u2019t terrific. It certainly has great antecedents. When the original opened a little over 20 years ago, overlooking the flash and dip of the waters in Leith at the city\u2019s harbour edge, it offered something Edinburgh didn\u2019t have much of back then: great cooking served without flummery. It turned out you could have a good dinner without acres of starchy tablecloths or starched waiters. It played to Scotland\u2019s reputation for the briny, mollusced and crustaceaned. It endured because it did all the important things well. As Edinburgh\u2019s restaurant sector grew, an outpost back in the centre of the city must have made sense. A friend told me they had come to prefer the younger sibling to the original. I can see why. All the essentials are here: there are oysters, left unmolested, or grilled with a bone-marrow crust. There are mussels from Shetland, platters of salmon, as gravadlax and both smoked and in an elderberry and vodka cure alongside pickled cucumber. The soup is a cream-ballasted chowder, made with salmon and smoked haddock. They have fish and chips and hot seafood platters, but also a menu of other more evolved things. And here\u2019s the point: some of it genuinely makes you sigh, and rest your elbows on the table. Soft, pearly fillets of lemon sole, curled in on themselves as they might be for a classic V\u00e9ronique, come with a chive potato cake, a kind of rosti. Looking at the uniformity of the strands I suspect a spiraliser might have been involved, but we will forgive them this for the brazenness of the fat-fried crust. There are grinning mussels and a brilliant green velout\u00e9 flavoured with breezy notes of tarragon. It\u2019s serious and confident cooking. We order a hot shellfish plater for one and it is a monumental thing, as it should be for \u00a350. Two people could get major satisfaction out of one person\u2019s portion. There is half a small lobster and a sizeable crab claw, a couple of fat scallops still clinging to the shell, and a brace of langoustine. There are clams, and all of it glazed in a garlicky, parsley-coloured butter emulsion that will repeat on you for days. A salad of sweet, nutty new potatoes and rocket makes you feel like you\u2019re getting your greens. So yes, there are good things here at Fishers in the City. But, oh those pieces of Lego, cutting deep into the arch of your foot. There\u2019s the discovery that all the good things in the seafood platter are supported by an enormous pile of mussels, the cheapest item in the seafood restaurant\u2019s fridge. There\u2019s the starter of salt and pepper squid which is simply too salty, as are the chips. It takes a quite terrifying amount of salt to make chips completely resistible. The kitchen here manages it. Over salting feels like a nervous tick that no one is managing. Another starter of crab Welsh rarebit sounds luscious and clever. Crab and butch, mustardy cheese are bound to get along. But there is something mimsy about the topping to the toast. It lacks that vital instinct to feed. Bread is just the wrong side of completely fresh. Roasted plums, the fruit lined up on the plate as if on guard duty, come surrounded by a rubble of crumble and just aren\u2019t quite roasted enough. They make you wish for a straightforward crumble. It\u2019s all in the details, isn\u2019t it? The service at our table is warm and engaged and fully present without being intrusive. But what I recall is less her, than the woman on the phone at the start. Fishers in the City is like one of those old televisions that needed to be thumped on the side to stop the picture wobbling. I hope they can give the operation the friendly whack it needs. For Edinburgh, honour is saved later that evening by a quick supper at the Fat Pony, the new place from redoubtable restaurateur David Ramsden. We grab a few small plates: there\u2019s smokey spiced lamb shawarma on warm fluffy flat bread, blissfully silky little pork gyoza, and an impeccable charcuterie board with pickles and chutneys and, for company, a quite lovely bottle of flinty Godello. Service is slick, prices are reasonable and absolutely nothing goes wrong. Is all that too much to hope for? Jay Rayner\u2019s news bites \u2022 Alex Aitken\u2019s Jetty in Christchurch, Dorset is now the cornerstone of a mini seafood restaurant empire. The number of menus may be exhausting, but there\u2019s some very good cooking here, based on cracking ingredients. Go for cod cheek fritters, rock oysters, torched mackerel fillets and a killer mixed fish grill. All in a shiny glass box by the sea (thejetty.co.uk). \u2022 Each year the American magazine Restaurant Business lists the biggest-grossing non-chain restaurants in the US. For the fourth year running the winner is Tao Asian Bistro in Las Vegas, with a staggering take of $42,470,345. Then again, it seats 400 people and most of them spend at least $90 a head. \u2022 Once upon a time Wagamama had the casual Japanese restaurant scene to itself. Now it has serious competition. Hence, they have turned their branch on Dean Street in Soho into The Noodle Lab, a test bed for new dishes. Diners will be asked to review what they\u2019ve tried (wagamama.com/noodle-lab). Email Jay at jay.rayner@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @jayrayner1"
"29||Three great warming wines for Bonfire nightTaste the Difference Saint-Chinian Syrah-Grenache 2015 (\u00a39, Sainsbury\u2019s) For me, Guy Fawkes Night is when autumn really starts to segue into winter, an occasion for sipping warming red wine, glass in gloved hand, around the bonfire. Sainsbury\u2019s has a wine that fits this mood perfectly \u2013 and which would also match well with a classic Sunday roast of lamb or beef. From the Saint-Chinian district of the Languedoc, it\u2019s a rich, spicy blend of syrah and grenache filled with liquorice, blackberries, pepper and the waft of wild scrubland herbs. Made by the reliable family firm of Laurent Miquel, it just pips Tesco\u2019s version of the same style, Tesco Finest Saint-Chinian 2016 for intensity and depth, although the latter is good value (\u00a37.50) for its succulent dark plummy smokiness. Morrisons The Best Rioja Reserva, Spain 2012 (\u00a36.50) The Morrisons wine department, much improved of late, has two Spanish candidates (or rather, one Spanish and one Catalan) for wintry comfort. The retailer\u2019s textbook Rioja Reserva offers all the soft, mellow savouriness and coconut and vanilla seasoning you expect from traditional Rioja, with enough ripe black fruit to keep it from feeling, as cheaper reservas sometimes can, tired and over-the-hill. A few quid more, the Catalan contender, Morrisons The Best Priorat 2014 (\u00a310) is from the remote hills of Priorat and uses a blend familiar to winemakers all over the Mediterranean (grenache, carignan, syrah) to fashion a dark, chewy red with sweet spice and a freshening plum-skin tang that makes it very easy to drink. Miguel Torres Reserva Ancestral Old Vine Cinsault-Pa\u00eds-Carignan, Itata, Chile 2014 (\u00a312.50, Marks &amp; Spencer) The Torres wine empire has grown into regions all over Spain and into Chile. When it comes to bonfire night sustenance, the company has plenty to offer, whether it\u2019s the evergreen budget classic Sangre de Toro 2015 (widely available at around \u00a36) with its subtly smoky baked berry fruit, or the toasty-oak-and-loganberry richness of its Torres Celeste Crianza 2014 from Ribera del Duero (\u00a311.99, Waitrose). But the wine I\u2019d want tonight is M&amp;S\u2019s newcomer from very old vines down in Chile\u2019s exciting Itata Valley, which interweaves cherry raciness with darker, spicier, more savoury tones. Follow David on Twitter @Daveydaibach"
"6||Sunday\u2019s best TV: Unspeakable; Blue Planet II; Babylon BerlinUnspeakable 9pm, Channel 4 This taut, disturbing one-off drama, written and directed by Bafta-winner David Nath, finds Game of Thrones\u2019 Indira Varma questioning everything she knows \u2013 or thinks she knows \u2013 about her new boyfriend (played by Luke Treadaway). When she receives an anonymous message telling her that something is going on between her 11-year-old daughter and Treadaway\u2019s Danny, she spirals into a stomach-churning panic as her suspicions begin to consume her. Ben Arnold Blue Planet II 8pm, BBC1 This week, we venture via an underwater probe into the ocean depths, the largest space on Earth, where 90% of the world\u2019s fish find refuge. In fathoms where the sun can\u2019t filter through we see mysterious creatures who communicate in a code of flashing lights, transparent-headed fish, six-gilled sharks, fearsome squid and worms feeding on a whale carcass. It\u2019s a soberly factual psychedelia; all told, utterly sensational stuff. The apex of the BBC. David Stubbs The Last Post 9pm, BBC1 Peter Moffat\u2019s righteously stiff drama about British military police in Aden in the 1960s ends with the court martial of Cpt Martin. Amid cross-examination scenes that have a faint tang of Blackadder Goes Forth, everyone must decide whether to do The Right Thing. At risk: their careers. The potential reward: restored self-esteem, surging strings on the soundtrack and the suggestion of genteel but sweaty offscreen redemption sex. Jolly stirring stuff. Jack Seale Sheridan 9pm, ITV Old-fashioned variety is alive and well in this glitzy special, starring the likable Sheridan Smith. As well as being one of the finest British TV actors, the star of Cilla and Mrs Biggs is showcasing her tonsils with songs from her new album. There\u2019s something undeniably charismatic about her as she busts out the crowd-pleasers with a live orchestra. Alexander Armstrong is on hosting duties and he gives Smith a gentle grilling about her life and work. Hannah Verdier Ceremony: Return of Friedrich Engels 9.40pm, BBC4 In the commemorations of the centenary of the Russian Revolution, little attention has been paid to the role of Manchester \u2013 but it was there that Friedrich Engels, co-author with Marx of The Communist Manifesto, developed his ideas. This film follows Phil Collins \u2013 the artist not the drummer \u2013 as he retrieves a statue of Engels from Ukraine and drives it back across Europe, bringing Engels, as Collins sees it, home. Andrew Mueller Babylon Berlin 9pm, Sky Atlantic Much-tipped, and with good reason, Babylon Berlin is stately, engrossing and full of surprises. We are in the Berlin of the 1920s, a time (we learn) much like our own: characterised by extreme views, pornography and pretentious restaurants. We follow Rath (Volker Bruch), a jumpy policeman from Cologne, and Ritter (Liv Lisa Fries), doing what she can to make rent. Wonderful scene-setting in this first episode, with surely the best boy-meets-girl yet devised. John Robinson Countdown to Apocalypse 10pm, History The Mayans saw 21 December 2012 as a date that fell during an important turning point in the calendar. Fast forward to the year itself and there was mild hysteria over whether it might also be doomsday. It wasn\u2019t, but still offered a hook to this six-part series considering how different societies have thought about the end of the world. Tonight, we learn about the Earth\u2019s magnetic shield and meet Americans learning to live off the grid. Jonathan Wright TV films October: 10 Days That Shook the World, (Sergei Eisenstein, 1928), Sunday, 8pm, BBC4 Just the thing to commemorate the centenary of the Russian Revolution: Eisenstein\u2019s magnificent 10th anniversary re-enactment. With the zealous input of the Red Guards, soldiers and sailors who were actually there, it\u2019s a fervent account of epic events in 1917 Petrograd, from the revolution that overthrew the tsar, through Lenin\u2019s messianic arrival from Finland, to the storming of the winter palace. Eisenstein ran into trouble with Stalin for his none-too socially realistic, near-surreal montages, but survived. Paul Howlett Anna Karenina, (Joe Wright, 2012), 1pm, Film4 Another elegant literary adaptation for Wright to add to his canon beside Pride and Prejudice, Atonement and Stoner. It\u2019s some achievement to turn Tolstoy\u2019s romantic epic into a mere two hours of cinema. Still, Wright\u2019s conceit \u2013 to set the action around an 1870s theatre \u2013 cleverly refreshes the story and Keira Knightley is alluring as Anna, though saddled with a slightly anaemic lover in Aaron Taylor-Johnson\u2019s Count Vronsky. Paul Howlett Paddington, (Paul King, 2014), 5.15pm, Channel 4 Paddington, the hero of Michael Bond\u2019s books, may be an undersized Peruvian bear but he packs a warm hug in this family-friendly treat. Taken in by the Brown family (parents played by Hugh Bonneville and Sally Hawkins), Paddington (sweetly voiced by Ben Whishaw) indulges in plenty of extreme marmalade-fun, and a moderately scary run-in with menacing taxidermist Millicent (Nicole Kidman). Paul Howlett The Invention of Lying, (Ricky Gervais, Matthew Robinson, 2009), 9pm, Syfy Ricky Gervais takes a leap to Hollywood leading man with this inventive comedy. It\u2019s set in a parallel world where everyone tells the truth, and when Gervais\u2019s tubby loser accidentally comes up with a little fib, then a bigger one, he is swiftly acclaimed a messiah. But that still might not be enough to win the love of his life, Jennifer Garner. It\u2019s sharply written (by the co-directors) and very funny. Paul Howlett The Ring, (Gore Verbinski, 2002), 11.20pm, BBC2 A chilly and respectful remake of Hideo Nakata\u2019s cult horror movie, with Naomi Watts as a journalist investigating the murders of several teenagers, including her niece. It turns out they all watched a mysterious videotape that results in death seven days after viewing \u2013 and since Watts gets to see it too, her inquiries grow increasingly urgent. Paul Howlett Live Sport Premier League Football: Manchester City v Arsenal An actual, genuine Super Sunday with Chelsea v Manchester United to follow. 1.15pm, Sky Sports Main Event Anglo-Welsh Cup Rugby: Saracens v Harlequins A round one game at Allianz Park. 2.45pm, BT Sport 2 Track Cycling: World Cup Coverage of the opening round of the season from Pruszk\u00f3w, Poland. 4.30pm, Eurosport 1"
"7||A year ago Trump spoke of binding the nation's wounds \u2013 so what happened next?It was one small step for a man, one giant leap into the political unknown. Just before 3am, Donald Trump moved to the microphone at the Hilton hotel in Midtown Manhattan as an astounded, euphoric crowd chanted: \u201cUSA! USA! USA!\u201d The president-elect gave a thumbs up, spoke graciously about opponent Hillary Clinton and made a promise: \u201cNow it\u2019s time for America to bind the wounds of division.\u201d As the first anniversary of that wild night approaches, Trump\u2019s victory over Clinton in the US presidential election has lost none of its power to shock supporters and opponents alike. The jubiliation in the hotel ballroom with its red, white and blue lighting, Air Force One theme music and red sea of \u201cMake America great again\u201d baseball caps was matched by grief \u2013 and genuine fear \u2013 at Clinton\u2019s funereal election watch party and in millions of homes. The billionaire businessman\u2019s acceptance speech, with its nod to Abraham Lincoln (who once pledged to \u201cbind up the nation\u2019s wounds\u201d), was an uncharacteristically conventional attempt to unify following the most brutal of campaigns. It raised hopes that Trump the president would differ from Trump the candidate. Today, however, many of those hopes have been dashed. Critics say he has divided America more deeply than ever, driving wedges between black and white, female and male, rural and urban \u2013 perhaps as a deliberate political strategy. \u201cLooking back to that moment, they were just words on paper because there has not been healing, no binding of the wounds from the campaign, no return to American tradition in that sense,\u201d said Michael Steele, former chairman of the Republican National Committee. \u201cHe has weaponised some of the tools in politics. He\u2019s fascinating to watch because he\u2019s able to manipulates messages, people, situations. It astonishes me that people are still dumbfounded by it all.\u201d As a candidate, Trump had broken every taboo, from a launch event where he described Mexicans as rapists and drug smugglers to his attack on the parents of a fallen Muslim soldier to the revelation of an old videotape in which he bragged about groping women. Despite huge, raucously enthusiastic crowds, it was assumed he could not win an election in the America of Barack Obama. Indeed, he did lose the popular vote by 3 million yet took the electoral college to become the oldest US president to enter the White House in history and the first with no prior political or military experience. Whether his campaign knowingly colluded with Russia along the way is the subject of ongoing investigations. Two weeks before election day, a New York Times front page headline read: \u201cVictory in sight, Clinton presses beyond Trump.\u201d Trump supporter Benjamin Marchi, a healthcare service franchise owner and Republican platform committee member in Maryland, had, though, begun 8 November 2016 with cautious optimism. Then at around lunchtime he spoke to a friend who had seen exit polls: the outlook was bleak. \u201cAs hopeful as I was, there was no explaining away the margins in those polls,\u201d he said. \u201cI thought that\u2019s that.\u201d Marchi then got a call from the Trump campaign inviting him to the official watch party at the Hilton in New York. \u201cMy wife said, \u2018Does he have a chance? I said no, not really.\u201d Even so, they drove up from St Michaels in Maryland and found an event that, by Trump\u2019s standards of showmanship, was relatively low key. \u201cIt was obvious when we arrived at around 8 or 9pm there was not the level of excitement or expectation,\u201d Marchi recalled. But as the night wore on and Fox News beamed results into the room, the mood shifted and the crowd swelled, like sports fans going from resignation to curiosity to giddy laughter. \u201cA lot of people made a big deal about North Carolina and holding close in Virginia but what did it for me was Wisconsin. When he won Wisconsin, he wasn\u2019t going to lose Pennsylvania and I knew there was no stopping him.\u201d A year later, Marchi, 39, can still hardly believe it. \u201cI haven\u2019t stopped thinking about that night since it happened because it was awesome.\u201d He believes Trump has lived up to his promises during his first nine months in office, despite constant criticism. \u201cHe delivers tough medicine and, when people don\u2019t want to take their medicine, they\u2019re going to squeal. He has pursued exactly what he said he would pursue and it shouldn\u2019t be a shock or surprise to anyone.\u201d The celebrations at Trump HQ contrasted spectacularly with the tears across town at the Javits Center, where Clinton\u2019s speech was abruptly cancelled, and among Democrats and progressives across the country. Many conservatives were shaken too. Charlie Sykes, a broadcaster and author, said: \u201cI think I was numbed by the enormity of it.\u201d Sykes was unimpressed by Trump\u2019s election night pitch. \u201cHe can read a speech written by others that may have some grace notes but his presidency has thrived on division, stoking acrimony and inflaming the culture wars. No one who paid attention during the campaign should be surprised but it\u2019s still shocking to see a US president behave like that. Division is a business model for much of the conservative media and it is central to the political strategy of the president.\u201d After a concert short on stars at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, Trump took office on 20 January. It was his inaugural address, not his election night speech, that revealed his true colours: \u201cMothers and children trapped in poverty in our inner cities; rusted-out factories scattered like tombstones across the landscape of our nation \u2026 the crime and gangs and drugs that have stolen too many lives \u2026 This American carnage stops right here and stops right now.\u201d Sidney Blumenthal, a former senior adviser to President Bill Clinton, said drily: \u201cI don\u2019t recall his inaugural address being similar to Abraham Lincoln\u2019s first inaugural address in which, on the eve of civil war, he appealed to \u2018the better angels of our nature\u2019. With Trump we got \u2018American carnage\u2019.\u201d Just a week later the president issued an executive order banning entry for 90 days by citizens of Iraq, Syria, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen. The order also indefinitely halted admission of refugees from Syria. It triggered immediate confusion at airports as well as widespread protests. The ban was knocked back by judges and Trump has been wrangling with the courts ever since. It was a sign of the divisiveness to come along the fault lines of class, culture, gender, gun ownership, race and religion. Blumenthal, a biographer of Lincoln, added: \u201cTrump pursues polarisation whenever he can. It\u2019s his life raft. He cannot survive without dividing. All he has is his base, such as it is, and it can only be held together through constant alarms, emergencies and appeals to its instincts. Instead of the better angels of our nature, he appeals to the demon instincts of his base.\u201d Trump pursued the construction of a wall on the Mexican border and terminated the Obama-era programme that protects the so-called Dreamers from deportation. He pardoned Joe Arpaio, a sheriff in Arizona who defied a court order to stop racially profiling Latino people. He set up a voter fraud commission, which many saw as an attempt to disenfranchise black voters. He championed a law and order crackdown and casually suggested to police that they should handle suspects more roughly. He condemned professional football players who \u201ctake the knee\u201d during the national anthem in protest over racial injustice. His response to the hurricanes in Puerto Rico appeared slower than in Florida or Texas, he sparred with the mayor of San Juan and earned scorn for lobbing paper towels at citizens there. He effectively accused an African American war widow of lying. And perhaps most infamously of all he drew moral equivalence between white supremacists and anti-Nazi demonstrators in Charlottesville, Virginia, suggesting that \u201cboth sides\u201d were to blame for deadly violence. Julissa Arce, a former undocumented immigrant from Mexico, was at a party in Los Angeles on election night. \u201cIt was the first time I\u2019d voted in a presidential election and I was super-excited that I got to vote for what I thought would be the first female president of the United States, so I walked into the party with a smile.\u201d But after seeing Clinton defeated in Pennsylvania and Ohio, she left and watched the rest in her apartment. \u201cI was stunned. I just couldn\u2019t believe how disappointed I was in the United States for electing someone like him, who ran on such divisive rhetoric and who was not qualified.\u201d Arce, a board member at the National Immigration Law Center added: \u201cHe continues to be incredibly divisive and, with every tweet, he divides the country more and more. The problem with it is that he gives permission to other people to be divisive as well. I see it in my Twitter feed: people are constantly saying, \u2018go back to where you came from\u2019 or \u2018we need to build a wall and you should be on the other side of it\u2019. Trump did not create anti-immigrant sentiment but he made a ripe environment to say things that were unacceptable to say in public before.\u201d Arce, a former vice-president at Goldman Sachs and now a naturalised US citizen, is convinced that Trump is a white supremacist. \u201cI think he\u2019s become that more and more. He wasn\u2019t always but as he\u2019s embodied this persona to get election he can no longer tell the difference.\u201d Trump got elected partly by bolting together a powerful coalition of conservative pressure groups such as Christian evangelicals, anti-abortion campaigners, Tea Party anti-tax advocates and, above all, the National Rifle Association (NRA). In Atlanta in April he became the first sitting president to address the annual NRA convention since Ronald Reagan and that \u201cbind the wounds of division\u201d speech in New York felt like a different universe as the crowd booed and jeered images of Clinton, Obama and Hollywood actors. Trump has also continued to fire up his core support with an average of one rally per month, seeking to delegitimise institutions through \u201cus against them\u201d rhetoric and claiming to back the common man against the elites. In Huntington, West Virginia, he told supporters that the Russia investigation was an attack on them; in Phoenix, Arizona, he spoke of \u201cdamned dishonest\u201d journalists who \u201cdon\u2019t like our country\u201d. The crowd chanted: \u201cUSA! USA! USA! \u2026 CNN sucks! CNN sucks! CNN sucks! \u2026 Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall!\u201d Neil Sroka, communications director of Democracy for America, a liberal advocacy group, watched the election results with colleagues in Seattle. He had pre-written one press statement for a Clinton victory and another for a Trump surprise. \u201cWe figured Secretary Clinton would win and were trying to work out how the left could keep up the pressure,\u201d he recalled. But as it dawned on them that Clinton would lose, they threw out the \u201cTrump wins\u201d statement and started a new one. \u201cI sat in a corner and rewrote it entirely in 20 minutes because the mood had changed instantly. There was a need to change our entire position and outlook: we got very early that resistance would become central to this presidency and we haven\u2019t let up.\u201d Indeed, Trump\u2019s election night plea for unity cut little ice with Sroka and colleagues. \u201cThere was not a moment of hesitation for us in the room: we knew he was lying,\u201d he said. \u201cThis is a man who has spent his life saying what he needs to say to get ahead. In a moment of shock for him, somebody handed it to him and he read it.\u201d The scale of the catastrophe came home to Sroka the next day when a Muslim co-worker called him to express anxiety over his future in America. \u201cThat was when the emotion hit me directly. As hard as we\u2019d worked, there was the realisation that we hadn\u2019t done enough. There was a deep, profound fear of what Donald Trump\u2019s administration might do in office, some of which has been realised and some of which hasn\u2019t because of his ineptitude. He has proved to be one of the worst managers we\u2019ve ever seen in the Oval Office.\u201d A year on, polls suggest that only about a third of the country supports Trump. But he continues to energise the anti-anti-Trump base in a common disdain for liberal America and could yet retrace a narrow path to victory in 2020. \u201cThere has never been a president more focused, more dedicated and more committed to dividing the country against itself over and over again,\u201d Sroka added. \u201cThe only way he wins again is by dividing us further. It\u2019s our job to unify the country specifically against his divisive kind of politics.\u201d"
"2||Deontay Wilder destroys Bermane Stiverne to defend WBC heavyweight title \u2013 as it happenedThat\u2019s all for now. Thanks as always for following along with us and here\u2019s the full match report: Stiverne threw exactly four punches in tonight\u2019s fight. He landed zero. \u201cI\u2019ve been waiting on that fight for a long time now,\u201d says Wilder when asked about Anthony Joshua. \u201cI declare war upon you. Do you accept my challenge? ... I\u2019ve been waiting for a long time, I know I\u2019m the champion, I know I\u2019m the best. Are you up for the test?\u201d Wilder brushes aside the notion of taking a fight with Dillian Whyte before Joshua. \u201cA king don\u2019t chase the peasants,\u201d he says. \u201cA king takes kings. I want Joshua. If he don\u2019t give me the fight we have other plans \u2026 why should I go to England to fight a peasant without the king on the contract? The world want Joshua, the world want wilder, I want Joshua. Joshua come and see me baby. No more dodging, no more dodging, no more excuses \u2026 make the date, don\u2019t wait. \u201cI\u2019m too athletic. I told y\u2019all I\u2019m mobile, I\u2019m hostile, I am the king baby and no heavyweight can compare to me \u2026 I\u2019m very confident in what I do and tonight I showed that.\u201d \u201cNo one punches like him, no one has the reach he has, no one has the one-punch power he has,\u201d promoter Lou DiBella says at ringside. \u201cHe\u2019s the scariest heavyweight on the planet. He will put Anthony Joshua to sleep the same way he just did Bermane Stiverne. \u201cHe\u2019s Anthony Joshua\u2019s biggest test, he\u2019s Anthony Joshua\u2019s worst nightmare.\u201d He adds: \u201cEddie [Hearn] and Anthony Joshua have to know that the biggest challenge for Joshua is the man who looked so spectacular tonight.\u201d Jimmy Lennon Jr announces the particulars: a knockout at the 2:59 mark of the first round. Wilder\u2019s sixth defense of the WBC heavyweight title was his most emphatic yet. He\u2019s now 39-0 with 38 KOs and while tonight\u2019s outcome will do little to satisfy those critical of his caliber of opposition, it\u2019s the sort of spectacular exhibition that will no doubt resonate across the pond. Round 1 Wilder comes out firing with a stiff left jab. Stiverne is fighting off the back foot looking to counter punch. Jab, jab, jab. Wilder scoring sproadically with it. Now Stiverne is coming forward a bit and Wilder is opening up. He lands a combination upstairs but Stiverne takes it well. Wilder showing great hand speed early. And now he\u2019s dropped Stiverne with a left-right combination! Stiverne makes it to his feet but he\u2019s dropped quickly for a second time with another combination. Not much time left in the round ... but enough for Wilder to overwhelm Stiverne with another combination and drop him for a third time. Stiverne clearly been separated from his senses and and the referee has wisely waved it off! It\u2019s a first-round TKO for Deontay Wilder! The classy Jimmy Lennon Jr makes the introductions, referee Arthur Mercante Jr is giving his final instructions and the seconds are out. We\u2019ll pick it up with round-by-round coverage from here. After a bit of a delay, the fighters are making their entrances. First it\u2019s Stiverne, accompanied by an anonymous SoundCloud rapper. Someone forgot to do a soundcheck, too. Now it\u2019s Wilder, escorted by 50 Cent performing Many Men (Wish Death): I put a hole in nigga for fucking with me My back on the wall, now you gon\u2019 see Better watch how you talk, when you talk about me \u2018Cause I\u2019ll come and take your life away Ominous, that. Organizers say the official attendance for tonight\u2019s event is 10,924. Feels a bit optimistic, but we\u2019ll accept the premise. The entire mezzanine of the Barclays Center has been covered up, creating a mostly packed atmosphere in the lower bowl. Shawn Porter has just finished off a lopsided but crowd-pleasing unanimous-decision win over Adrian Granados. All three judges handed down scores of 117-111, as did the Guardian. A one-sided affair but a hell of a fight, really. \u201cHe gave me a little trouble here and there,\u201d said Porter, who improved to 28-2-1 with 17 KOs. \u201cI hurt my left hand in the sixth round, but I kept using it. I had to use my jab. It took a toll on me and by the 10th round I just couldn\u2019t throw it anymore. \u201cThe strategy was to keep working the jab. I knew he\u2019d come at me periodically. I was prepared and dug deep to get the win. \u201cWe\u2019re gonna rest for about a week and then get back to work. We want Keith Thurman as soon as possible.\u201d Said Granados: \u201cI thought that I was controlling the fight and keeping up with him the whole time. He was just trying to use his normal tricks. I rocked him multiple times and he never had me in any trouble. ... He\u2019s a brute. I thought the referee did a good job breaking up the fight at the right times. It was rough but I definitely thought I did better than the scorecards said.\u201d That\u2019s it for the undercard. Wilder and Stiverne will make their ringwalks shortly. Shawn Porter and Adrian Granados are halfway through the scheduled 12 rounds of their welterweight scrap. It\u2019s been a wildly entertaining affair so far with a steady stream of two-way action, but Porter is clearly getting the better of the exchanges and is ahead six rounds to none on my card. Those waiting for the main event can expect Wilder and Stiverne to make their ringwalks in the next half hour. Sergey Lipinets has just outpointed Japan\u2019s Akihiro Kondo for the vacant IBF junior welterweight title. It was an evenly matched, highly entertaining scrap hardly reflected by the official scores of 118-110, 117-111 and 117-117, which prompted a cascade of boos from the crowd of several thousand on hand. \u201cI think the scorecards were accurate but it was a good fight,\u201d said Lipinets, who improved to 13-0 with 11 KOs. \u201cThe head butt really impaired my vision and it led to me walking into some stupid shots. ... I\u2019m happy with my performance. I\u2019m just going to keep getting better from here. I\u2019m ready to take any on challenge thrown my way.\u201d Said Kondo (29-6-1, 16 KOs): \u201cIt was a fair decision. He hit me with a lot of hard punches and I felt like I needed at least a knockdown in the last round. \u201cI made up my mind that I wasn\u2019t going to show any pain or fear from his punches. I was determined to keep fighting all night. I\u2019m going to go back and get stronger and stronger to get back in the ring. I\u2019m thankful for this opportunity and I congratulate Sergey on a great performance. This was a once-in-a-lifetime experience.\u201d One more fight before the main event: a 12-round welterweight title between former champion Shawn Porter (27-2-1, 17 KOs) and Adrian Granados (18-5-2, 11 KOs). Hello and welcome to Brooklyn for tonight\u2019s heavyweight title rematch between Deontay Wilder and Bermane Stiverne. Wilder (38-0, 37 KOs) is making his sixth defense of the WBC\u2019s version of the heavyweight title, a belt which he captured from Stiverne (25-2-1, 21 KOs) back in January 2015. That was the first real test of the Olympic bronze medalist\u2019s career and he came through, although he was extended the distance for the first and only time to date. Wilder\u2019s opponent tonight was meant to be rugged contender Luis \u201cKing Kong\u201d Ortiz, but Ortiz flunked a drug test and Stiverne stepped in to save the show despite having only one fight in the last three years \u2013 a less-than-scintillating points win over the journeyman Derric Rossy in 2015. Which has made most observers not terribly optimistic about the Floridian\u2019s chances and the event itself, though a spectacular performance by Wilder tonight would certainly stoke interest in a unification bout with Anthony Joshua, who defended the IBF and WBA titles last week in Cardiff. Bryan will be here shortly. In the meantime, why not look back on Kevin Mitchell\u2019s assessment of the heavyweight division."
"2||Deontay Wilder 'declares war' on Joshua after one-round destruction of StiverneDeontay Wilder\u2019s sixth defense of the WBC heavyweight title played out as expected \u2013 and then some. The unbeaten American touched with prodigious power in both hands dropped Bermane Stiverne three times in a spectacularly violent display before referee Arthur Mercante Jr intervened with one second left in the opening round on Saturday night at Brooklyn\u2019s Barclays Center. Afterward, Wilder (39-0, 38 KOs) was asked about the much-fancied heavyweight title unification bout with Britain\u2019s Anthony Joshua, the IBF and WBA champion regarded by many as the division\u2019s top dog since sending Wladimir Klitschko into retirement at Wembley Stadium earlier this year. \u201cI\u2019ve been waiting on that fight for a long time now,\u201d the 32-year-old Wilder said. \u201cI declare war upon you. Do you accept my challenge? ... I\u2019ve been waiting for a long time. I know I\u2019m the champion, I know I\u2019m the best. Are you up for the test?\u201d He continued: \u201cA king don\u2019t chase the peasants. A king takes kings. I want Joshua. If he don\u2019t give me the fight we have other plans \u2026 why should I go to England to fight a peasant without the king on the contract? The world want Joshua, the world want Wilder, I want Joshua. Joshua, come and see me baby. No more dodging, no more dodging, no more excuses \u2026 make the date, don\u2019t wait.\u201d The Olympic bronze medalist from Alabama had won the WBC\u2019s piece of the long-fractured heavyweight championship from Stiverne on points when they first met nearly three years ago. But the Stiverne who climbed through the ropes on Saturday was a silhouette of the fighter who had offered Wilder so game a challenge in their first meeting, the first and only time the chiseled American has been extended the distance before or since. The Haiti-born, Las Vegas-based mandatory challenger had fought just once in the 34 months since \u2013 a less-than-scintillating points win over the journeyman Derric Rossy in 2015 \u2013 and celebrated his 39th birthday this week, uncomfortable truths which no doubt accounted for the 10-1 odds against him. But on Saturday, the lone opponent to last 12 rounds with Wilder could not even make it through one. Wilder came out firing with a stiff left jab as Stiverne fought off the back foot looking for opportunities to counter. Midway through the round Stiverne ventured forward into the pocket but immediately paid a toll as Wilder\u2019s advantage in hand speed was laid bare. Before long the 6ft 7in champion uncorked a left-right combination that dumped Stiverne to the canvas in a heap. Stiverne (25-3-1, 21 KOs) made it to his feet but Wilder barreled in and sent him clattering to the deck once more with another series of looping, clubbing lefts and rights. The challenger bravely beat the count as the end of the round drew near, but Wilder ensured he wouldn\u2019t make it to the bell, closing the show with flurry of blows punctuated by a heat-seeking left hand that split Stiverne\u2019s guard and left his fallen opponent senseless and in a daze amid cheers from the 10,924 spectators on hand. \u201cHe will put Anthony Joshua to sleep,\u201d barked Lou DiBella, who promotes Wilder. \u201cNo one punches like him, no one has the reach he has, no one has the one-punch power he has. He\u2019s the scariest heavyweight on the planet. \u201cHe\u2019s Anthony Joshua\u2019s biggest test, he\u2019s Anthony Joshua\u2019s worst nightmare.\u201d The punch stats reflected the lopsided flavor of the affair: Wilder landed 15 of 39 punches according to CompuBox, while Stiverne threw a scant four punches and landed none. And while it will do little to dispel the persistent doubts over Wilder\u2019s caliber of opposition, it was a visceral pageant that will redouble interest in a matchup with Joshua as the pair continue to set themselves apart as the two best on offer in boxing\u2019s glamour division. \u201cI\u2019m too athletic,\u201d said Wilder, who earned a $1.4m purse for Saturday\u2019s fight compared to $500,000 for Stiverne. \u201cI told y\u2019all I\u2019m mobile, I\u2019m hostile, I am the king baby and no heavyweight can compare to me. I\u2019m very confident in what I do and tonight I showed that.\u201d Stiverne had emerged as Wilder\u2019s mandatory challenger only after Saturday\u2019s intended opponent, the heavy-handed Luis \u2018King Kong\u2019 Ortiz, flunked a drug test. Wilder had been dealt a similar bad hand last year when the former heavyweight belt-holder Alexander Povetkin tested positive for the banned substance meldonium ahead of their high-profile showdown in Moscow. \u201cSo much frustration, it just seemed like my career, it\u2019s been crazy ... so many guys using PEDs,\u201d Wilder said. \u201cI just want to prove that I am the best. I know I am the best but I want to prove I am the best. One champion, one face, one name, he goes by Deontay Wilder.\u201d Joshua\u2019s promoter, Eddie Hearn of Matchroom Boxing, has suggested Wilder should first fight British contender Dillian Whyte, reportedly offering a $3m purse plus the US television rights to the American with a handshake deal to fight Joshua next, but DiBella dismissed that notion with contempt in Saturday\u2019s aftermath. \u201cStop with this Dillian Whyte shit,\u201d DiBella said. \u201cWho the fuck is Dillian Whyte? Come on, Eddie, let\u2019s play. You want to do [Joshua-Wilder] at a soccer stadium in the UK, let\u2019s do it. Deontay Wilder will put Anthony Joshua to sleep the same way he just put Stiverne to sleep. \u201cThe winner of Joshua-Wilder is the real heavyweight champion. That fight has to happen. The boxing fans deserve it. We don\u2019t want to wait.\u201d Shelly Finkel, Wilder\u2019s veteran manager, said on Saturday they\u2019re willing to accept Hearn\u2019s offer to fight White first as long as Joshua is guaranteed next, but said that Hearn has repeatedly balked at the stipulation since the initial negotiations began six weeks ago. \u201cI\u2019ve been in this game a long time,\u201d said Finkel, who managed former heavyweight champions Mike Tyson, Evander Holyfield and Michael Moorer. \u201cIf someone wants to fight, they fight. Joshua said he wants to fight Deontay next year. Deontay just finished his mandatory, you heard what he wants to do. Joshua finished his mandatory, you haven\u2019t heard a word from him. If Joshua wants to fight, Deontay is ready. If it means the right deal to go to the UK, he\u2019ll fight him on the moon. He\u2019ll go anywhere to fight him and he said it. \u201cThere\u2019s no silence, there\u2019s no avoiding. It\u2019s up to Joshua and if it\u2019s doesn\u2019t happen, he has his reasons.\u201d"
"5||Why we can't have nice things: dockless bikes and the tragedy of the commonsIf there is one sad fact that technology has taught us, it\u2019s maybe that we just can\u2019t have nice things. Now Washington DC has become the latest testing ground for what happens when technology and good intentions meet the real world. Brightly coloured bikes began popping up around the US capital in September like little adverts for a better world. On a recent trip two lemon yellow bikes were propped up in the autumn sun by the carousel on the Mall. A pair of lime green bikes added a splash of colour to a grey corner of DuPont Circle. An orange and silver bike waited excitedly for its rider outside the George Washington University Hospital. The untethered bikes all belong to a new generation of \u201cdockless\u201d bike share companies. To pick one up users download an app that shows where the bikes have been left. Scan a QR code on your phone, the bike unlocks and you are off for a $1 30-minute carbon-free ride. Unlike docking rental services, which require bikes to be returned to a fixed docking station, you can leave your ride wherever your journey ends, practically. And therein lies the problem. Behind this bucolic scene is a multibillion-dollar cutthroat battle that is pitching two of China\u2019s most successful tech companies against Silicon Valley-backed rivals and a system that has proved, shall we say, problematic, in other cities. DC\u2019s dockless bike experiment is a beta test designed to run through April next year. It seems to be working beautifully. The city already has close to 4,000 docked bikes serving two million-plus riders a year with its Capital Bikeshare system. So far the companies offering dockless bikes \u2013 China\u2019s Mobike and Ofo and the US-backed LimeBike, Spin and Jump \u2013 have only been allowed to put up to 400 bikes each on the streets. That\u2019s six bike companies for a city of just over 680,000 people \u2013 not all of them bike riders. At current levels the bikes are fairly inconspicuous but all the companies are keen to expand. LimeBike\u2019s founder Toby Sun has said he\u2019d like to see 20,000 dockless bikes in the city. Sadly in other cities this green \u2013 and taxpayer-free \u2013 solution to urban transport issues has turned into a surreal nightmare. In China, where there are some 16 million shared bikes on the street and MoBike alone now has over a million, the authorities have been forced to clear up ziggurats of discarded bikes. Residents of Hangzhou became so irritated by bikes lazily dumped by riders, and reportedly sabotaged by angry cab drivers, that the authorities were forced to round up 23,000 bikes and dump them in 16 corrals around the city. \u201cThere\u2019s no sense of decency any more,\u201d one Beijing resident recently told the New York Times after finding a bike ditched in a bush outside his home. \u201cWe treat each other like enemies.\u201d In the UK bikes have been hacked, vandalized and thrown on railway tracks. In Australia dumped bikes have been mangled into pavement blocking sculptures \u2013 perhaps in a homage to technology\u2019s promise of \u201ccreative destruction\u201d. Utteeyo Dasgupta, assistant economics professor at Wagner College in New York, said the bike dilemma had some similarities to the \u201ctragedy of the commons\u201d \u2013 the economic theory that individuals using a shared resource often act according to their own interests and to the detriment of the shared resource. There are two distinct \u201cabusers\u201d in the case of dockless bikes \u2013 riders and vandals. In the case of riders, problems are likely to be exacerbated by competing bike companies flooding the market with bikes in order to win market share. \u201cThe tipping point is likely to come when there are so many bikes that each user stops internalizing the cost of not getting a bike,\u201d he said. With bikes literally littering the street, riders become less mindful of how they treat the bikes and where they leave them when there is always another to pick up. The second group of abusers, vandals, are a different matter and one better dealt with by law and order than apps or economics. But again, said Dasguppta, supply and demand rules apply. The more bikes there are, the more opportunities for vandals. As dockless bikes spread across the US no one is more determined to make sure decorum is maintained in DC than the companies spreading them. \u201cBiggest concern I hear is what is parking going to look like,\u201d says LimeBike\u2019s Maggie Gendron, director of strategic development and a former legislative assistant to Vermont\u2019s Senator Patrick Leahy. Officials \u201cmight not necessarily want bikes all over the street\u201d, she says. But cities too \u201care at a tipping point\u201d, she says. They do not want more cars downtown and they are looking for responsible transportation solutions that can ease congestion. Dockless bikes offer a solution at no cost to the city, freeing money for other investments. The companies are hoping technology can head off the excesses other cities have witnessed. Bikes can\u2019t be locked in bad parking spots \u2013 outside city monuments and in security zones for example. MoBike and others punish poor parkers by increasing what they pay for rides and then knocking them off the system if they offend too often. But there is little to stop vandals and thieves doing what they will with the vulnerable two-wheeled steeds except for common decency. A virtue no tech company seems to have developed an app for yet. And the battle for supremacy means inevitably that more bikes will soon end DC\u2019s dockless bike paradise. MoBike and Ofo have raised more than $1bn each from investors this year alone. LimeBike, started in January, has already raised $62m from investors including Andressen Horowitz, which counts Skype, Twitter and Instagram among its others among its former proteges. Bike wars are here. Outside the White House Wijnand Vanderwerf has seen the dark side of bikes firsthand. Watching a protest (unrelated) and sitting astride a MoBike he said he liked the service in DC but that it would never work in his native Holland. He already has three bikes (one for the city, one for longer rides and a spare for guests) and so do most of his friends. \u201cThere\u2019d be nowhere to park them,\u201d he says."
"11||'I miss them so much': Myanmar's lost Rohingya children plead for their parentsThe lost boy wails. Tears stream down his face as he looks around, frantic. \u201cI found him by the main road, so I brought him here,\u201d says a middle-aged Rohingya woman who cradles the toddler in her arms and gestures towards a shack made from wood and corrugated iron. A Bengali sign translated in rough English reads: \u201cIf you lost your familys any members. Then you can publicity here with out any money.\u201d But the shack, once a lost-and-found booth for separated families, is closed. The woman is told to try using the microphone at a makeshift mosque to make an announcement, but the boy is too young to know his name. They disappear into the crowd. Close to one million Rohingya are now living in mud huts, tents and under sheets of tarpaulin in the refugee camps outside the Bangladeshi port town of Cox\u2019s Bazar. The majority have arrived since August, when Myanmar security forces launched a crackdown in northern Rakhine state that the United Nations has said amounts to ethnic cleansing of the long-reviled Rohingya Muslim minority. Soldiers, sometimes together with police and local Buddhists, are accused of massacres, gang-rape and arson under the guise of hunting militants. More than half of those who have fled are children, the United Nations Children\u2019s Fund says. They dominate the camps. The stronger ones lug bags of food and piles of wood on their shoulders, and splash in dirty streams; others sweat out fevers in dusty huts and languish with bellies swollen by malnutrition. In an interview with the Guardian last week, Elhadj As Sy, a top official with the Red Cross, called the situation a \u201ccrisis of children\u201d. In an indication of both the chaotic nature of the exodus and the high death toll, 40,000 are believed to be without at least one parent according to the European Union. Some are orphans while others were lost during the journey from Myanmar or in the sprawling camps. Fears of trafficking are high and aid workers say several Rohingya have been approached by people offering to buy children. \u201cThere is no official overall number, but we suspect thousands [of children] are likely to be living with extended families or members of their community,\u201d says Rik Goverde, a communications manager at Save the Children, which is housing a small number of the most vulnerable children. Before it closed in mid-October, the lost-and-found booth was bombarded with requests. Kamal Hossain, one of 300,000 Rohingya who have been in Bangladesh since a previous wave of violence in the 1990s, set up the makeshift centre after finding a baby crying outside the gate of Handicap International, where he works as a security guard. He was able to reunite her with her mother by renting a microphone and calling out her name. Word spread and, in less than two months Hossain received about 1,500 reports of missing people, the majority children. He was able to reunite about half before he shut the booth down for lack of funds. \u201cI am just a volunteer, I am just a guard,\u201d he says. \u201cI\u2019m uneducated. I need some help like people who can read. I need a salary.\u201d But desperate people continue to show up looking for answers in his notebooks, filled with the names of the missing. \u201cI\u2019m feeling very stressed now,\u201d he says. \u201cWhen the centre was open, any separated person could be joined. Now I don\u2019t know what will happen to those lost people. \u2018I couldn\u2019t carry them all\u2019 Many may never find their relatives. The dead in Myanmar remain uncounted but Human Rights Watch estimates it to be in the thousands. United Nations investigators said last week the number killed could be \u201cextremely high\u201d. At the bleak edges of the biggest camp, Kutupalong, where the newer arrivals are camped, four siblings sit in silence, sorrow etched on their faces. \u201cMy parents died in Myanmar. Killed. We were at our home when the military came to attack,\u201d the eldest, Sofara, who is eight, says as she cradles two-year-old Jikara in her lap. At this, the baby starts to wail. Sobs wrack her tiny, naked body and she buries her nose deeper into her sister\u2019s arms. Their uncle, Kabir Ahmed, a quiet man dressed in a longyi and a Myanmar football shirt, explains that his brother Jafar \u2013 their father \u2013 was shot dead when soldiers blockaded their village, Boli Fara in Maungdaw township, and stopped residents from leaving. Families were starving, he says. Jafar had tried to sneak out to go fishing but was caught. They buried his body. When soldiers came and started burning houses in mid-September, his sister-in-law, the children\u2019s mother, had just given birth and was too weak to flee. In the chaos his sister-in-law, who Ahmed describes as beautiful and loving, was left behind. Later, he heard the whole village had been razed. They raped women too, Ahmed says. Guilt haunts him. \u201cI couldn\u2019t carry them all,\u201d he says, pressing his fingers into his temples and choking back tears. \u201cShe was lying there. Everybody was fleeing. We didn\u2019t have any relatives to ask to carry her. \u201d He begged her to get up and try to walk. \u201cI don\u2019t know if she heard,\u201d he says. \u201cI didn\u2019t look back. I had to move to save our lives.\u201d \u2018I miss my parents so much\u2019 While many of the orphaned and separated children have been taken in by neighbours or relatives, others arrived in Bangladesh alone. In a centre run by Save the Children, 14-year-old Fatima, whose name has been changed to protect her identity, recounts how she was at home with her father, a village chairman in Maungdaw township when soldiers came for him. \u201cThe military said, \u2018Come with us. We have something to discuss with you,\u2019\u201d she says. She fled from the house and went to stay with her grandmother. Her story cannot be independently verified, but tallies with many Rohingya interviewed by the Guardian who say their relatives were taken away for meetings from which they never returned. The army strongly denies the accusations, framing the fighting in Rakhine as a legitimate struggle against a nascent Rohingya militancy. When Fatima returned home the following day, she says she found her mother\u2019s body lying outside. When a wave of Rohingya fleeing to Bangladesh came through the village, she was sitting by the side of the road crying. A family took her in, and she joined them on the days-long trek. But they beat her and she ended up running away, eventually finding the camps in Cox\u2019s Bazar. In Myanmar, Fatima was a keen student. She loved to practice Burmese and flick elastic bands at her classmates. Now her days are lonely. \u201cI wake up in the early morning and read the Koran and pray five times. I eat something,\u201d she says. She starts to cry, wiping her face with her sleeve. \u201cI miss my parents so much,\u201d she says. Trafficking in the camps With so many undocumented children living without their parents, aid workers are worried about trafficking. \u201cI think it\u2019s a very high risk,\u201d says Lisa Akero, a protection and gender specialist at the International Federation of the Red Cross. \u201cI\u2019m basing that risk assessment on the already known prevalence of trafficking in Bangladesh and also in Myanmar, and in this setting right now, as in any disaster, when the situation is so chaotic at the moment, with so many people who are not registered and have no identification, of course it\u2019s very high risk.\u201d The camps are filled with rumours but there have been at least two confirmed cases of people trying to buy Rohingya children, one of them seven years old, Akero says. \u201cYou can\u2019t call it trafficking but documented incidences where families have been offered to give away their children or caregivers have been offered to sell their children,\u201d she says. \u201cTo be taken to Dhaka for adoption is what the story will be.\u201d Organisations such as Save the Children are working on foster care programs and have placed children with volunteer guardians. On the outskirts of the camps, Kabir Ahmed is relieved to be out of Myanmar but is struggling to care for his brother\u2019s four children as well as three of his own. He can find few words of comfort for his nephews and nieces. They miss their mother most at night. \u201cThey cry, \u2018Mother, mother where are you? Take me under your cover.\u2019\u201d he says. \u201cI tell them to stop and try to sleep.\u201d"
"1||Turnbull says he will consider NZ refugee deal only after US resettlementsMalcolm Turnbull says he will \u201cconsider\u201d New Zealand\u2019s offer to take refugees from the Manus Island detention centre, but only once the government has completed its refugee transfer arrangement with the US. The Australian prime minister met with his New Zealand counterpart at Kirribilli House in Sydney on Sunday, and Jacinda Ardern confirmed she had restated her country\u2019s offer to accept 150 refugees from among the almost 600 still holding out on Manus Island. Turnbull had been expected to reject the offer, and said his government was \u201cnot taking it up at this time\u201d. However he left the door open for a future agreement, saying the government would consider the deal once it had completed the ongoing transfer of refugees to the US. \u201cWhat we are seeking to do is to ensure that there are opportunities for resettlement on the people on Manus Island and Nauru. As you know we have an arrangement United States whereby a substantial number of about 1,250 can \u2026 be resettled in the United States. \u201cWe want to pursue those, conclude those arrangements and then in the wake of that obviously we can consider other [resettlement deals].\u201d Ardern ruled out making the refugee resettlement offer directly to the Papua New Guinean government, saying there was \u201cno need\u201d because the offer was under \u201cactive consideration\u201d by Australia. \u201cI absolutely understand the priority that has been placed around the agreement with the United States,\u201d she said. \u201cOf course from the New Zealand perspective we want [our] offer to remain on the table so that we can assist as much as we\u2019re able in expediting a resolution on this issue.\u201d But Turnbull also suggested the government would not look favourably on arrangements that increased the likelihood of asylum seekers arriving by boat. \u201cI just want to emphasise that we know what the alternative looks like,\u201d he said. \u201cTens of thousands of unlawful arrivals and over 1,000 men, women and children drowning at sea. \u201cWe have put the people smugglers out of business and we will keep them out of business.\u201d Sunday was the first face-to-face meeting between Turnbull and Ardern, who became New Zealand\u2019s new Labour prime minister last month. As well as the Manus deal, in a two-hour meeting they discussed the future of the now 11-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership, and concerns about the stability of the North Korean regime. Ardern said they did not talk about foreign minister Julie Bishop\u2019s comments before the election in August that the Australian government would find it \u201cvery hard to build trust\u201d with a Labour government after an extraordinary diplomatic spat over claims about the then opposition party\u2019s role in Barnaby Joyce\u2019s citizenship saga. Australia and Japan have been leading the charge to save the controversial trade deal since the US president, Donald Trump, withdrew his country\u2019s support in January. New Zealand has remained committed to the TPP, but Ardern has raised concerns about investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS) clauses which allow private companies to sue signatory governments before an international tribunal if they think the government has introduced or changed laws that significantly hurt their interests. While acknowledging the benefits of the TPP, Ardern said it would \u201cnot stop us from pursuing the ISDS clause as far as we are able\u201d. \u201cIt is something I have made clear domestically and it is something I think the population would like to pursue to make sure we are protecting New Zealand\u2019s domestic best interests,\u201d she said. Earlier on Sunday, the Liberal backbencher Kevin Andrews broke ranks to lend his support to the idea of sending refugees to New Zealand to help end the standoff on Manus Island. More than 600 refugees have barricaded themselves in the mothballed detention centre, which closed on Tuesday. \u201cWe should give consideration to what New Zealand is offering,\u201d former immigration minister Kevin Andrews told Sky News on Sunday. \u201cIt\u2019s a difficult problem but we should not rule out any particular solution.\u201d He acknowledged there were concerns about a New Zealand refugee resettlement deal establishing a pull factor for people making boat journeys or becoming a back door to Australia. But Andrews said if a deal could be crafted to work around those issues it should be given thorough consideration. The opposition leader, Bill Shorten, believes the government should accept the offer. New Zealand, which takes a total of 750 refugees a year, first made its resettlement offer in 2013, to the then Labor Gillard government. The offer has been rejected more than once on the grounds it would give asylum seekers a backdoor into Australia and become a marketing opportunity for people smugglers. Overnight, one refugee was reportedly experiencing heart problems. Food and drinking water has run out and the group is too scared to move to alternative accommodation in the main township out of fear they will be attacked by locals. The last food packs were distributed on Sunday."
"1||Manus Island crisis: refugee collapses after reporting heart painA refugee in the Manus Island detention centre standoff collapsed with heart pain on Saturday night and waited more than four hours for Papua New Guinean authorities to take him to hospital. The man is among 600 refugees and asylum seekers barricaded inside the mothballed detention centre, which closed on Tuesday. The Iranian refugee Behrouz Boochani told Guardian Australia one of his fellow countrymen collapsed at about 7.30pm. \u201cWhen he collapsed last night we were without power so everywhere was dark and the refugees became so scared,\u201d he said. \u201cIt was a such hard night. Some of the refugees tried to look after him and we tried to help him. We had two phone numbers that immigration had earlier put up in case of emergency. We called those numbers but nobody answered.\u201d Boochani said the asylum seekers and refugees unsuccessfully tried to call police and the navy. \u201cFinally we were able to get a message to [International Health and Medical Services] who are working in East Lorengau camp but they said, \u2018We cannot help you there while you are refusing to leave the prison camp,\u201d he said. \u201cAfter two hours, a car belonging to the police mobile squad appeared and we stopped them and asked them to help. They said there is no ambulance here and you must wait until morning, then make your way to East Loreangau to receive medical treatment. \u201cFinally PNG immigration sent a car and picked up the sick refugee, after more than four-and-a-half hours since he collapsed.\u201d Boochani said the refugee was taken to Lorengau hospital half an hour away however they did not have adequate equipment to deal with his condition. The man had a long history of heart pain and had seen two specialists in Port Moresby in February who had recommended treatment in Australia but that request had been denied. Dr Barri Phatarfod from Doctors for Refugees expressed concerns about the man\u2019s medical treatment at Lorengau hospital, saying no electrocardiogram heart monitoring or blood tests were carried out. \u201cIt is impossible to adequately assess a potential myocardial infarct in the absence of both of these investigations,\u201d she said. \u201cIf this occurred in Australia it would be grossly negligent.\u201d Six detainees have died on Manus Island \u2013 including one who was murdered \u2013 since it was reopened in 2012. The Greens say the immigration minister, Peter Dutton, must be held to account for the standoff on Manus Island. Dutton, however, accused the Greens of stoking tensions on the island. \u201cThe Australian government has stopped deaths at sea,\u201d he said on Sunday. \u201cIf we allow people who sought to our country by boat to reside in Australia permanently, that will mean that the people smugglers are back in business.\u201d On Sunday, the New Zealand prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, confirmed she had restated her country\u2019s offer to accept 150 refugees from among the almost 600 still holding out on Manus Island. But the Australian prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, said he would \u201cconsider\u201d New Zealand\u2019s offer to take refugees from the Manus Island detention centre only once the government has completed its refugee transfer arrangement with the United States."
"29||Great Australian cookbook \u2013 chilli mud crab, prawn rolls and oyster pies recipesAre we what we eat? The publishers behind the Great Australian cookbook (Echo, $50) wanted to take a snapshot of the country and the food Australians love to eat, by asking 100 cooks, chefs, bakers and other foodies to share their favourite family recipes. From sponge cakes to Spanish omelettes, potted pork to coq au vin, the only thing these recipes have in common is their multicultural heritage. Just like Australia, then. Asian chilli mud crab Chef Spencer Patrick of Harrisons restaurant, Port Douglas Everything I\u2019ve cooked here comes from my surrounds, including the mud crabs [that] come from the mangroves in the back garden. I love living in Far North Queensland. This is my paradise. Serves 2 2 brown onions 6 red chillies (hot ones) 100ml vegetable oil 200 ml tomato paste 60 ml kecap manis 2 tbsp white vinegar 200g ginger 3 sticks lemongrass, chopped 4 kaffir lime leaves 1 large mud crab Garnish 1/2 bunch coriander 1/2 bunch Thai basil 2 limes Place all ingredients (except crab, of course) into a food processor and blend, seasoning with salt and pepper to taste. Toss with crab and leave for 2 hours. You can give the thicker parts of the crab shell and claws a few good blows with a mallet to crack the shell and allow the marinade in. It also makes it easier to eat later. Heat a wok to hot and add marinated crab. Toss and cook until shell turns orange and flesh is translucent \u2013 approximately 25 minutes. If the wok gets too dry, add a splash of sea water or beer of your choice. Place in serving bowl and garnish with scattered herbs and wedges of lime. Banh ho chao tom (sugar cane prawn rice paper rolls) Chefs Angie and Dan Hong Going to my mum\u2019s house for Monday Hong Dinners is the highlight of my week. I rarely say yes to going out with mates for dinner that night because I know that no meal will ever be as good as the one I share with my family at that table. \u2013 Dan Hong Makes 12 1kg black tiger prawn meat (frozen is better in this case) 2 cloves garlic, finely minced 2 tsp table salt 5 tsp raw sugar 1 tsp ground white pepper 1 tsp baking powder \u00bd cup arrowroot flour Canned or fresh sugar cane, cut into 20 cm lengths approx. 1 cm in diameter (kind of like a stick of cabanossi) vegetable oil for deep-frying To serve 1 bunch each of your favourite Vietnamese herbs, e.g. perilla, Vietnamese mint and garden mint 1 butter lettuce, torn into leaves 1 Lebanese cucumber, sliced into sticks 1 handful mung bean sprouts, washed Nu\u00f3c chaam dipping sauce Vietnamese pickled carrots and daikon 1 packet rice vermicelli noodles, cooked 1 packet rice paper sheets In a large mixing bowl, combine the frozen prawns with the garlic, salt, sugar, pepper, baking powder and arrowroot flour. Refrigerate the mixture for 1 hour, then transfer the contents to a food processor and blitz until a smooth paste is formed. Divide this prawn mousse into balls the size of tennis balls. On a clean, slightly damp surface, pound each ball several times to eliminate air pockets. Once pounded, wrap the prawn mousse around a stick of sugar cane and repeat until all of the mousse has been used up. Transfer the sugar cane prawns to a steamer basket, and steam for 20 minutes or until the prawn mousse is firm. These can be stored in the freezer and thawed out as needed. Heat a deep-fryer or a heavy-based pot of oil to 180\u00b0C and fry the sugar cane prawns in batches until golden. Alternatively, they can be barbecued or grilled until heated through. To serve: arrange the herbs and salad ingredients on several big plates, along with the fried sugar cane prawns (you can slide off the sugar cane and split into four, lengthways), pickles, rice noodles and the uncooked rice paper. Pour hot water into shallow, wide bowls within reach of each person. To eat, each person dips a sheet of rice paper into hot water, places it on a plate, and adds their own preference of fillings to the centre. Roll up like a cigar or burrito, dip in nu\u00f3c chaam and enjoy! Oyster pies Gary and Jo Rodley \u2013 Tathra oysters We are all as silly as each other in this dedication to growing this produce, Australia\u2019s great oyster, the Sydney rock oyster. We pinch ourselves sometimes. Are we really doing this? Is this really ours? Is this our life? And we love it. We feel lucky every day. Makes 12 small pies 1 cup small florets of broccoli 90 g butter \u00bd leek, finely diced \u00bd cup diced red capsicum \u00bd cup diced green capsicum 4 tbsp plain flour 300 ml warm milk \u00bd cup grated cheese handful of chopped parsley 2 dozen (24) shucked Sydney Rock oysters 3 sheets ready-made shortcrust pastry, defrosted (for pie base) 3 sheets ready-made puff pastry, defrosted (for pie top) Pre-heat pie maker (or oven to 180C). Steam broccoli until al dente. Set aside. Melt butter in a pan and saut\u00e9 leek and capsicums. Add flour and stir constantly for 1 minute. Gradually add milk, stirring as the sauce thickens. Add cheese, then broccoli. Season to taste with salt and pepper, add parsley and stir. Finally, add oysters to the pan and stir through. Using the large cutter provided with the pie maker, cut rounds for the bases from the shortcrust pastry and place in the pie maker moulds. Using the smaller cutter, cut rounds for the tops from the puff pastry. Alternatively, line a large pie dish with the shortcrust pastry, line with baking paper and cover the base with ceramic weights or uncooked rice. Bake for 10 minutes then remove the weights (or rice) and paper and bake for a further 5\u201310 minutes until golden. Spoon the filling into each pie base (allowing two oysters per small pie) and top with the puff pastry. Seal the lids, crimping the edges with a fork, and cook for 7 minutes until the pastry is golden-brown. If making a large pie in the oven, bake for 30\u201335 minutes until golden. Carefully remove each pie from the pie maker or pie dish and allow to cool slightly (the filling will be hot!). These recipes are edited extracts from The Great Australian Cookbook (Echo, $50), available now"
"2||Godolphin at the double as Wuheida and Talismanic strikeAfter a year marked by internal problems on one side of the running rail and a shortage of star performers on the other, Godolphin brought its season to a close with a flourish in California on Saturday night, as the royal blue silks completed a double with Wuheida in the Filly &amp; Mare Turf and Talismanic, from Andr\u00e9 Fabre\u2019s yard in Chantilly, in the $4m Breeders\u2019 Cup Turf. Talismanic stayed on strongly in the straight to overhaul the local favourite Beach Patrol and give Mickael Barzalona his first Breeders\u2019 Cup victory. Fabre, who famously saddled Arcangues to win the Classic at 133-1 in 1993, registered his fifth success at the meeting. Beach Patrol led the field with a furlong to run but Barzalona brought Talismanic with a strong run to lead halfway down the stretch. Highland Reel, last year\u2019s winner of the race and the strong favourite for a repeat, could only stay on into third. \u201cAndr\u00e9 Fabre is a living legend,\u201d said Joe Osborne, who replaced John Ferguson as Godolphin\u2019s chief executive following internal strife at the operation earlier this year. \u201cHe\u2019s always regarded this horse very highly and we weren\u2019t at all concerned about the fast ground. When Andr\u00e9 Fabre rates their chances, you have to respect that.\u201d Aidan O\u2019Brien, Highland Reel\u2019s trainer, saw both his runners on the dirt track beaten, as Churchill faded to finish unplaced behind the front-running Gun Runner in the Classic, while U S Navy Flag faded rapidly behind Good Magic in the Juvenile. Gun Runner got the better of a prolonged duel with Collected in the Classic, while Arrogate, who beat Gun Runner into second in the Dubai World Cup in March, ran a disappointing race on his final start before going to stud. Wuheida, trained in Newmarket by Charlie Appleby, took the Filly &amp; Mare Turf under a flawless ride by William Buick. Buick, whose own season was disrupted by injury after a fall at Arlington Park in August, settled Wuheida in a close third and simply had to choose the right moment to strike leaving the home turn to secure the win. Rhododendron and Ryan Moore, from the Aidan O\u2019Brien stable, set off in vain pursuit down the stretch having been settled much further back in the field from a wide draw, but could get only to within three-quarters of a length of the winner. The moment of victory was particularly sweet for the jockey, as this was his first winner at the Breeders\u2019 Cup in 12 attempts after near misses that included a last-gasp defeat on The Fugue \u2013 by the Moore-ridden Magician \u2013 in 2013 which reduced the jockey to tears. He also lost a stirrup on the turn aboard Masar in Friday\u2019s Juvenile Turf. \u201cShe\u2019s a push-button ride,\u201d Buick said. \u201cI could send her forward from the gate and get her into a nice rhythm, and the trip was never a concern. I was very happy throughout and I had plenty of horse and I could go where I wanted. It was a case of don\u2019t get too excited and don\u2019t go too soon.\u201d Appleby said: \u201cI was delighted from the get-go. The fractions all looked right and William got everything spot on. I\u2019d love to train her as a four-year-old. For me, she can only get better as she gets older and strengthens into her frame.\u201d The Elite Racing Club\u2019s bold bid to win the Breeders\u2019 Cup Turf Sprint with Marsha ended in disappointment, as Sir Mark Prescott\u2019s filly finished out of the frame behind the 31-1 outsider, Stormy Liberal. Lady Aurelia, who finished a nose behind Marsha in the Nunthorpe Stakes and set off as the odds-on favourite, fared even worse and was one of the last to cross the line. \u201cThey went very hard from the gate, which was always on the cards, really,\u201d Luke Morris said. \u201cI got onto the tail of Lady Aurelia about half way around and that was my plan all along but she just struggled slightly on the track. \u201cThe track was always the slight concern but she\u2019s so tough and honest and she\u2019s held her form right through the year. She\u2019s been a great servant.\u201d Marsha picked up about $10,000 for finishing sixth \u2013 a buck for every member of the Elite Racing Club \u2013 and is now expected to head to the sales in December, to be sold as a broodmare."
"1||Coalition MPs say citizenship audit could create 'witch-hunt'Turnbull government ministers continue to proclaim there is no need for any citizenship audit of the parliament, despite lingering questions over the eligibility of MPs that risk seeing the constitutional crisis drag into the new year. Despite Coalition MPs such as Kevin Andrews, Craig Kelly and Eric Abetz publicly calling for some sort of citizenship audit to settle the matter, senior government ministers were sent out on Sunday to hold the line against one. \u201cWe have the principles of the procedures of fairness, natural justice and also the presumption of innocence,\u201d Mathias Cormann told Sky. \u201cWe don\u2019t want to get ourselves in a situation where we\u2019ve got this witch-hunt type, lynch mob-type justice. \u201cWe are a civilised society, we are a parliamentary democracy, we have constitutional arrangements which underpin the stability of our system of government and we have to preserve that \u2013 and that means that members of parliament shouldn\u2019t be put in the position that they are assumed to be in breach unless they can prove they are not.\u201d Speaking to the ABC, Kelly O\u2019Dwyer also picked up on the \u201cwitch-hunt\u201d talking point. \u201cNo witch-hunt, no Salem witch trial will actually take away from the fact that the high court is the only arbitrator on this question, so we need to take a pretty deep breath, because those people who said they\u2019re not compliant have, in fact, come forward,\u201d O\u2019Dwyer. \u201cAnd the high court has made a determination and it is clear. And anyone who feels that they are not compliant needs to come forward and seek that referral. And anyone who doesn\u2019t asserts that they are currently compliant with the constitution.\u201d But Kelly went further, denying that all the MPs who had been referred to the high court had done so only after questions were raised by citizens and the media. \u201cEvery single person who has come before the high court has actually come forward,\u201d she said. \u201cSo it\u2019s actually not true at all to say that they have been outed. They, themselves, have come forward and said, \u2018We don\u2019t believe that we\u2019re compliant with the constitution, with section 44.\u2019\u201d Scott Ludlam resigned after a lawyer questioned his dual-citizenship status, which caused Larissa Waters to investigate her own status and subsequently resign. Barnaby Joyce spent weeks denying any dual-citizenship concerns, and joked about it on some occasions, before media inquiries prompted his own referral, which then led to Fiona Nash making her own individual inquiries regarding her status. Malcolm Roberts spent weeks denying he was a citizen of any other nation, telling media he was \u201cchoosing to believe\u201d he was only ever Australian, before being eventually forced to refer himself to the high court, after Greens senators indicated they were willing to break convention and make the referral for him. Roberts continued to deny he had any issues until after the high court ruling. Alex Hawke is the latest Turnbull MP to be dragged into the fray, with News Corp reporting concerns the Mitchell MP may be a citizen by descent of Greece, through his mother. \u201cI am an Australian citizen only and have never held or acquired or sought Greek or any other citizenship,\u201d he told News Corp. The prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull returned to Australian on Friday to find the heritage of his energy minister, Josh Frydenberg, under the microscope, following a 2011 decision by Hungary to attempt to right a World War II wrong, reinstating the right to citizenship on citizens who were stripped of their status under the fascist, German-allied government of the 1940s. Frydenberg\u2019s mother, Erica, was one of those citizens. But despite an internal check on the eligibility of MPs by party executives \u2013 which began after Parry\u2019s late admission of a citizenship conflict reinvigorated the issue many had thought was finally settling down following October\u2019s high court ruling \u2013 the government officially stands against any sort of public audit. On Friday, Labor said it would support a universal disclosure of eligibility documents, provided there was bipartisan support. That came after the president of the Senate, Stephen Parry, came forward with his own dual-citizen concerns, later confirmed, which led to his own resignation. It later emerged, first reported by the ABC, that Parry had confided his concerns in senior ministers in the lead-up to the high court ruling but had been counselled to remain quiet until after the judgment, with the government then confident its advice from the solicitor general would see its members returned to the parliament. Mitch Fifield later admitted he had known of Parry\u2019s concerns ahead of his announcement. Turnbull was not alerted until the day Parry\u2019s announcement became public. Under parliamentary rules, any MP can move a motion to refer another member to the high court, provided the motion receives majority support, however under convention, the member in question, or at the very least their party, are usually encouraged to make the move themselves. Historically, this precedent is yet to be broken."
"2||Gun Runner wins Breeders' Cup Classic 2017: day two \u2013\u00a0as it happenedReport from Del Mar: That was a fine race to round off a fine meeting at Del Mar, which has handled the Breeders\u2019 Cup really well. So well, in fact, that it would be great to see the Cup return here in the future. I hope you enjoyed the action and found a winner or two more than I did. Thanks again for joining me, and I hope we can do it all again in Kentucky in 12 months\u2019 time. This is Greg Wood, signing off at Del Mar. Arrogate eventually finished in a dead-heat for fifth place. Gun Runner was a very narrow second favourite, returning $6.80 to a $2 stake. A brilliant duel between Gun Runner and Collected, who had the race between themselves by the time the left the back, although West Coast ran on well in the stretch to finish third. Gun Runner had been on the lead from the off, and Collected was the first to crack about halfway down the stretch, allowing Gun Runner to stay on to win by two-and-a-quarter lengths. Arrogate, meanwhile, was very disappointing on his final start. He was slowly away from stall one and never threatened to return to the form which won him this race 12 months ago. Mike Smith, his jockey, suggested afterwards that the Del Mar surface may have played a role in the defeat, but this was essentially a poorer version of the form that Arrogate has been showing since he returned to action in the summer after his big win in Dubai. 2. Collected 3. West Coast 4. War Story Now a duel between Gun Runner and Collected Collected and West Coast bang there, turning in now. Gun Runner leads, Churchill fourth heading into the back. Arrogate well back. OFF AND RUNNING IN THE CLASSIC! Finally, they are at the gate. Both Arrogate and Gun Runner are now showing as 2-1 chances on the PMU, but there is slightly more money riding on Arrogate according to the main board. A premature post that last one, hit the wrong button. In fact, they have yet to reach the stalls even though the race is already nearly 10 minutes late. Any second now ... One minute to post time, and it promises to be a classic Classic ... The fanfare sounds and here they come, led by Arrogate who will start from stall one. And now a Del Mar tradition - the singing of Where The Turf Meets The Surf (originally recorded, I think, by Bing Crosby, whose role in the founding of Del Mar got a mention what seems like days ago now). Gun Runner was the narrow morning-line favourite, but Arrogate is currently heading the PMU market for the Classic at 2-1 with Gun Runner showing at 5-2. West Coast is 4-1, Collected is a 6-1 chance and Churchill is 17-1 to give Aidan O\u2019Brien what would be one of the most satisfying wins of his career after near misses with Giant\u2019s Causeway, Declaration Of War and Henrythenavigator and the awful loss of George Washington at Monmouth. And finally the three-year-old West Coast, winning the Pennsylvania Derby at Parx: Here\u2019s Collected winning the Pacific Classic last time out with Arrogate in second: The other three members of what is seen as the \u201cbig four\u201d for this race over here are Gun Runner - the runner-up to Arrogate in Dubai - and two more runners from the Bob Baffert stable, West Coast and Collected. Here\u2019s Gun Runner winning the Woodward last time out: This will be the last race of Arrogate\u2019s career, so here\u2019s a chance to relive his success in the Dubai World Cup back in March, which ranks as one of the most astonishing I\u2019ve seen live. I\u2019ve just watched it again and I still can\u2019t quite believe it. A big moment for Mickael Barzalona, who showed no hint of his Breeders\u2019 Cup inexperience as he steered Talismanic to an impressive success at 14-1. Europe now has three winners on the board and Churchill\u2019s run in the Classic is coming up next. Joe Osborne is down on the podium for the second time today to pick up a prize for Godolphin. Big day for the royal blue. Here\u2019s the replay: British and Irish stables are already on the board at this year\u2019s Breeders\u2019 Cup and now France has a winner too as Talismanic - trained by Andre Fabre for Godolphin - gives the master trainer the fifth Breeders\u2019 Cup winner of his career. Beach Patrol made the first move leaving the home turn and it looked like being a winning one until Mickael Barzalona conjured a storming finish from the 14-1 chance Talismanic. Highland Reel, who won from the front last year, was a close-up third for much of the race and could only stay on to maintain his third place to the line. 2. Beach Patrol, 3. Highland Reel. Two minutes to post time for the Turf, Highland Reel is the 6-5 favourite. Beach Patrol, meanwhile, is the shortest price of the US-trained runners at 9-2. This is his win in the Joe Hirsh Classic at Belmont Park: Two races left at Breeders\u2019 Cup 2017, and it\u2019s the two biggest purses of the meeting. First up, the $4m Turf, sadly sans Ulysses but with Andre Fabre\u2019s Talismanic backing up the Aidan O\u2019Brien team of Highland Reel, last year\u2019s winner, Cliffs Of Moher and Seventh Heaven, and Decorated Knight attempting to go out on a high for Roger Charlton. For me, Charlton is one of the smartest and shrewdest trainers in the business, and it would be a fine result if he could get a Breeders\u2019 Cup winner onto his record. Here\u2019s Decorated Knight\u2019s win at a big price in the Irish Champion Stakes: Thanks to everyone reading, following and tweeting by the way: this is most-read item on Sport this evening! The replay of the Juvenile is here: All was going well for U S Navy Flag through the first part of the race, as Ryan Moore got him out quickly after a brief delay when Golden Dragon burst out of the stalls. Moore fired him up to the lead alongside Solomini going out into the back stretch and he was still there and travelling well enough until the turn for home, but he faded rapidly as Good Magic and Jose Ortiz pressed on for the wire. Good Magic surged past Solomini at the top of the stretch, but the runner-up stayed on to beat Bolt D\u2019Oro into third with the field well strung out. U S Navy Flag came home in his own time. 2. Solomini, 3. Bolt D\u2019Oro Two minutes to post, U S Navy Flag\u2019s fate may well be decided within a second of the start as he will need to get out quickly from stall one. They are approaching the gates. Bolt D\u2019Oro is 4-5 for the Juvenile, while U S Navy Flag is a 6-1 chance. There is also plenty of support for Free Drop Billy, the winner of the Grade One Claiborne Breeders\u2019 Futurity: William Buick talks to At The Races after Ribchester\u2019s last race ended in defeat: Mark Casse is in the interview room to talk about World Approval: You can\u2019t train greatness. You can just kind of make sure that you don\u2019t get in the way. Coming up next on the card here: the Juvenile, when Aidan O\u2019Brien will attempt to repeat his win in the same race with Johannesburg in 2001. That was his first winner at the Breeders\u2019 Cup, and remains his only success at the meeting off the turf (if you don\u2019t count the Marathon with Man Of Iron in 2009, which was on the Pro-Ride at Santa Anita in any case). On his turf rating having won the Dewhurst Stakes and the Middle Park in recent weeks, Johannesburg has a decent chance. First time up on dirt, though, is another thing entirely, and Bolt D\u2019Oro, who is trained by Mick Ruis, looks a very strong opponent. Here he is winning the FrontRunner at Santa Anita: World Approval is the fourth foal out of his dam Win Approval to earn $1m in prize money. Good genes. World Approval beats off the European challenge under John Velazquez, and Mark Casse\u2019s five-year-old was a ready and worthy winner. Ribchester was never dangerous after heading into the first turn towards the rear of the field, though he did make some late ground to finish fifth. Roly Poly and Ryan Moore raced even further back in the early stages, but Aidan O\u2019Brien\u2019s second-string, Lancaster Bomber, ran a brave race to finish second without threatening to lay a glove on the winner. Suedois also ran well to finish fourth. Here\u2019s the race replay: 2. Lancaster Bomber 3. Blackjackcat Suedois also goes in the Mile for David O\u2019Meara, and his groom has just won the best-turned out award. Home Of The Brave, Lancaster Bomber, Zelzal and Karar complete a huge team from across the pond. My each-way tip Midnight Storm, incidentally, is 23-1 on the PMU, so the locals fancy it only marginally more than the British bookies do. Mark Casse\u2019s World Approval is the PMU favourite for the Mile with about a quarter of a hour to go before the stalls crash open. Ribchester, perhaps as a result of the Godolphin/Buick success in the Filly &amp; Mare Turf, is a 4-1 chance, which looks a bit skinny given his draw in stall 10, while Roly Poly, who is even wider in 12, is 7-1. Here\u2019s World Approval winning the Woodbine Mile earlier this year: Splendid scenes as connections of Roy H cheer him home in the Sprint. If Breeders\u2019 Cup winners are like buses (which, admittedly, they probably aren\u2019t) then Buick could be looking forward to a quickfire double in the Mile, the next race here, in which he will partner Richard Fahey\u2019s Ribchester in the final race of his career. Drefong is the fifth straight beaten favourite on today\u2019s Breeder\u2019s Cup card - in fact, the fifth to fail to even make the frame - but Roy H had plenty of supporters here at around 9-2. 2. Imperial Hint, 3. Mind Your Biscuits It\u2019s nine minutes to post time for the Sprint on the dirt, by the way. No European runners here as is almost always the case now, though we did win it back in the day with Sheikh Albadou while Dayjur, of course, was also a moral winner when he jumped a shadow near the line at Belmont. Drefong is the strong favourite at 6-5, with Imperial Hint next in at 9-2. The market leader is lightly-raced and looks very hard to beat, but then the same was true of Lady Eli, Lady Aurelia and Unique Bella. Charlie Appleby on Wuheida\u2019s win: I was delighted from the get-go, the fractions all looked right and William got everything spot on. She\u2019s getting a racing head on her now, she\u2019s becoming that professional that you\u2019d like to see. Charlie Appleby - who is now two from three with runners at the Breeders\u2019 Cup - is in the interview room along with William Buick. Buick says: She\u2019s a push-button ride. I could send her forward from the gate and get her into a nice rhythm, and the trip was never a concern. I was very happy throughout, and I had plenty of horse and I could go where I wanted. It was a case of don\u2019t get too excited and don\u2019t go too soon That win was a big moment for the Godolphin operation too, after what has been a difficult year for the royal blue silks both on and off the track. Joe Osborne, who replaced John Ferguson as the organisation\u2019s chief executive earlier this year after a fallout between Ferguson and trainer Saeed bin Suroor, is picking up the trophy now and will feel a lot happier heading into the winter as a result. Here\u2019s the replay of Wuheida\u2019s win in the Filly &amp; Mare Turf: That really was a brilliantly executed ride by William Buick, whose own season has also been affected by injury following a fall at Arlington Park in August. He made the most of a good draw in stall six, was quickly settled in third place and then quickened off the turn to put the race to bed. Rhododendron, from her wide draw, was the better part of 10 lengths behind him as they set out down the back stretch, and there was simply no way that she was ever going to retrieve a deficit like that. A first Breeders\u2019 Cup winner for William Buick, aboard Charlie Appleby\u2019s Wuheida. Her season had been dogged by niggling injuries until now after her Group One win in the Marcel Boussac last year, but that is history now. Buick had her perfectly positioned to pounce at the top of the stretch, and while Ryan Moore was closing on Rhododendron, who started from stall 14, he was never getting there. A second win at the meeting for the Europeans. 2. Rhododendron, 3. Cambodia 35-1 about Nezwaah now, my 10 bucks must have moved the market. Lady Eli is the 7-5 favourite on the PMU, while Rhododendron is 7-1. My fancy Nezwaah is no less than 40-1 on the machine here, which seems like a daft price for a Group One winner who loves fast ground. The European challenge for the Filly &amp; Mare Turf includes Rhododendron, for Aidan O\u2019Brien, Roger Varian\u2019s Nezwaah and last year\u2019s winner, Queen\u2019s Trust. The one all have to beat, though, is Lady Eli, edged out of it on the line last year and likely to appreciate the drop back to nine furlongs this time around. Here she is winning the Grade One Diana Stakes this year: And the Filly &amp; Mare Sprint, which has left the backers on the floor after winners at 15-1, 31-1 and now 66-1. At this rate, they won\u2019t have anything left to bet with by the time the Classic rolls around. Here\u2019s the closing stages of the Turf Sprint via the Del Mar Twitter feed: More quotes from the Turf Sprint, where Marsha finished sixth in her final race and Lady Aurelia beat only two home. This is Wesley Ward, Lady Aurelia\u2019s trainer: He [John Velazquez] said he got a good trip, eased her out ready for her punch and it just wasn\u2019t there today. Probably the long year kinda caught up to us. She\u2019s such a great horse, she was doing everything we liked to see in the morning but when you gotta dig down deep in your soul, you need that freshness Another complete shocker of a result here, as Bar Of Gold takes the Filly &amp; Mare Sprint at 66-1. 2. Ami\u2019s Mesa, 3. Carina Mia The Filly &amp; Mare Sprint on the dirt track is the next event here, coming up in about three minutes\u2019 time. Unique Bella is another strong favourite at even money, and the punters could badly do with a trip to the payout windows. Luke Morris on Marsha\u2019s run in the Turf Sprint: They went very hard from the gate, which was always on the cards, really. I got onto the tail of Lady Aurelia about half way around and that was my plan all along, but she just struggled slightly on the track. Her best form is on straight tracks and that\u2019s always where you\u2019ll see her at her best, but she\u2019s run a good, honest race. Marsha managed to beat Lady Aurelia - but still finished in mid-division as both fillies failed to fire. Stormy Liberal - another big outsider at 31-1 - got up in a close finish to edge out his stable companion Richard\u2019s Boy. 2. Richard\u2019s Boy, 3. Disco Partner Marsha is thoroughly relaxed and taking it all in her stride as they head across to the stalls for the Turf Sprint. A win for her here would be one of the all-time great achievements for a British-trained runner in the States. Lady Aurelia is the first odds-on chance of this year\u2019s Breeders\u2019 Cup at the moment, showing at 3-5 on the PMU. Marsha is a 6-1 chance, while Mongolian Saturday, whose win at Keeneland two years ago led to some memorable scenes, is a 40-1 outsider this time around. Mike Smith was wearing a camera aboard Caledonia Road, here\u2019s the first-hand (or helmet) view of his winning ride in the Juvenile Fillies\u2019. Here\u2019s the obvious piece of video form for this race, complete with Frankie Dettori\u2019s celebration of his ... err... narrow defeat. It is 20 minutes to post time for the Turf Sprint, and Marsha versus Lady Aurelia part two in what could yet prove to be, from a British perspective at least, the race of the meeting. And while I\u2019m still highly dubious about whether Marsha will have enough time to close Lady Aurelia down on this short home straight, it should be pointed out that, in the supporting turf race before the Juvenile Fillies\u2019, Ryan Moore managed do go from last to first in the straight and win a tad cosily on Aidan O\u2019Brien\u2019s Declarationofpeace. The owner of Caledonia Road was just asked on the winner\u2019s podium why his horse is called Caledonia Road. \u201cIt is,\u201d he said, \u201cbecause I live on Caledonia Road.\u201d The winner was a 17-1 outsider, and the \u201cbig three\u201d in the betting all finished out of the frame. Yet another Breeders\u2019 Cup winner for Mike Smith as he brings Caledonia Road with a strong run down the stretch to catch Alluring Star a few strides from the line. The runner-up set a fair pace along with Moonshine Memories, but the favourite was beaten off before the home turn. Alluring Star had a healthy advantage at the top of the stretch but it was not enough to keep Caledonia Road at bay. Caledonia Road, 2. Alluring Star, 3. Blonde Bomber. Heading for the gates for the Juvenile Fillies\u2019, Moonshine Memories a solid favourite now at 2-1. But enough of the frippery, the serious business of the Breeders\u2019 Cup main card is about to begin. It\u2019s 10 minutes to post for the Juvenile Fillies, for which Moonshine Memories is currently favourite ahead of Heavenly Love and Separationofpowers. Here\u2019s some vids of those three in action: Del Mar also staged a famous match race between Seabiscuit and Ligaroti in 1938, which was the first horse race to be broadcast on national radio in the US (Seabiscuit won by a nose). And more recently, it has staged two more matches: a Battle of the Sexes between jockeys Pat Valenzuela and Julie Krone, and a Battle of the Exes between Mike Smith and Chantal Sutherland. A bit of Del Mar history now. Bing Crosby was one of the track\u2019s founder-members, and its first President. He was also at the gate to greet racegoers in person when it opened in July 1937, and one of his horses, and his horse High Strike won the track\u2019s very first race, which does not seem to have raised any eyebrows at all in those more innocent times. One for historians: There\u2019s 40 minutes yet before the first of the Breeders\u2019 Cup races gets underway - the Juvenile Fillies\u2019 at 7pm GMT, so here\u2019s the view from the press room balcony to set the scene a little: The statement from Scott Palmer also addressed the possibility of \u201cprior concerns\u201d over Ulysses\u2019s wellbeing before his scratching was announced yesterday night local time. I\u2019m not aware of any prior concerns, but it would not surprise me. Especially in a big event like this, they want to give the horse the best opportunity to be okay and the connections a completely fair shake. We\u2019re talking about a very important race, here. First thing to report from here is a statement on the scratching of Ulysses from the Turf, from Dr Scott Palmer, the On-Call Veterinarian: The decision to scratch Ulysses was made by the connections, of course, with the advice of Dr Wayne McIlwraith. The concern was that Ulysses has a small amount of inflammation in his left front fetlock. I don\u2019t think it\u2019s a life-threatening issue whatsoever, it\u2019s just a bit of a concern and they wish to do the right thing by the horse and protect him. Good morning from Del Mar in southern California, where the main card of the 2017 Breeders\u2019 Cup will play out over the course of the next six hour or so. Europe\u2019s biggest ever team of horses for a Breeders\u2019 Cup picked up a win with Aidan O\u2019Brien\u2019s Mendelssohn in the Juvenile Turf yesterday, but there are four more events on the turf track today where the visitors have a major chance, as well as two big names running on the dirt as U S Navy Flag and Churchill line up for the Juvenile and the Classic respectively. There was a big setback to the challenge overnight, however, as Ulysses, the narrow second-favourite for the Turf, was ruled out of the race when he was found to have heat in a fetlock. \u201cWe are all very sorry, especially for the fans,\u201d Alan Cooper, racing manager for the Niarchos family, which owns Ulysses, said last night, \u201cbut it was in the best interest of the horse.\u201d In the absence of Ulysses, Highland Reel will now be a clear favourite to win the Turf for the second year running, while the other obvious highlight from a European point of view will be Marsha\u2019s rematch with Lady Aurelia, the horse she edged out by a nose in the Nunthorpe Stakes at York in August. Frankie Dettori famously punched the air in triumph that day only to find that Luke Morris had done him on the nod, but it promises to be much more difficult for Marsha to run down Lady Aurelia on this tight track where jockeys have a very limited home stretch to deal with. Dettori, who had been booked to ride Ulysses, has been replaced by John Velazquez aboard Lady Aurelia today, and his best chance of a winner at this year\u2019s Breeders\u2019 Cup now looks to be Queens Trust, last year\u2019s winner, in the Filly &amp; Mare Turf. Dettori has a dozen winners at this meeting to his name so far, while William Buick has yet to get off the mark but he has a great chance to break his duck when he rides Ribchester in the Mile. I\u2019ve gone for a big outsider in that one, and selections for all nine Breeders\u2019 Cup races are here (though the usual warnings about the value of investments going down as well as up do of course apply). The sun is out, Del Mar is looking splendid and you could probably hear the breakers on the Pacific shoreline a few hundred yards away were it not for the buzz from a sell-out crowd. It\u2019s time to sound the bugle and get the main card at this year\u2019s Breeders\u2019 Cup underway. Here\u2019s wishing everyone a thrilling and rewarding evening, hopefully with a few winners for the Europeans along the way. Greg will be here shortly. Until then, catch up with all the day one action \u2013 as it happened:"
"0||Robbie Stockdale hoping Sam Allardyce\u2019s lessons can save SunderlandEllis Short became a billionaire in the world of high finance but, transposed to planet football, Sunderland\u2019s owner has had an awful lot of trouble making his numbers stack up. In a rare, and defiantly passionate, Friday afternoon address to fans, the American declared seventh place in the Premier League to be the club\u2019s natural habitat. In reality, they kick off at Middlesbrough on Sunday lunchtime residing in the Championship\u2019s relegation zone. A key reason why his equations for success stubbornly refuse to balance rests with the relentless manager churn. Of the eight coaches Short \u2013 no longer actively trying to sell Sunderland \u2013 has worked with in the past six years, only one has departed on a high. Admittedly, Sam Allardyce\u2019s euphoria at taking charge of England soon evaporated, but he seemed the only recent recruit capable of breaking the club\u2019s cycle of interminable struggle and of ensuring that Short might no longer need to keep injecting hundreds of thousands of pounds into a concern that, despite having recently spent a decade in the Premier League, showed an \u00a3110m debt on its most recent accounts. \u201cSam\u2019s larger than life, he got the team playing a certain way and there was certainly a buy-in from the players,\u201d says Robbie Stockdale, Sunderland\u2019s first-team coach who, in the wake of Simon Grayson\u2019s sacking minutes after Tuesday\u2019s 3-3 home draw with Bolton, has become the joint caretaker manager alongside Billy McKinlay. \u201cSam was a good fit.\u201d Allardyce will not be returning, but Stockdale feels that aspects of his character could serve as a useful template to help Short \u2013 so forensically sure-footed in the private equity sphere \u2013 to identify Grayson\u2019s successor. \u201cTo manage the three big north-east clubs, you have to have a certain mentality,\u201d says the Redcar-born former Boro defender. \u201cThe north-east is a really special place for football and you have to be able to stand up to that. It\u2019s such a big deal for the supporters.\u201d Perhaps daunted by the attendant pressures \u2013 exacerbated by endless relegation battles \u2013 Sunderland\u2019s ever-changing cast of managers have frequently appeared thoroughly depressed, dismayed and disillusioned, but Stockdale seems genuinely excited by his admittedly temporary challenge. As he takes the seat variously filled by Steve Bruce, Martin O\u2019Neill, Paolo Di Canio, Gus Poyet, Dick Advocaat, Allardyce, David Moyes and Grayson, the 37-year-old\u2019s eyes are shining. \u201cIf I could choose one game in which to take charge of the team this would be it, it\u2019s brilliant, it\u2019s special,\u201d he says. \u201cI don\u2019t think you could choose a better game for us. It could act as a catalyst.\u201d Given Stockdale\u2019s heritage, the Tees-Wear derby is bound to be evocative but it also has the potential to prove a watershed for his past and present clubs. While three points would secure Sunderland their second Championship win of the season, and potentially lift them out of the bottom three, a Boro victory would ease the pressure on Garry Monk. Ten days or so ago, Monk looked in an even more perilous position than Grayson. Despite Steve Gibson, the Boro owner, pledging in pre-season to smash the Championship and a \u00a350m-plus investment in the transfer market, the Teessiders were failing to impress in mid-table. Viewed in the context that Grayson spent \u00a31.25m in the close season, it represented serious underachievement for a side relegated alongside Sunderland in May. Fortunately for Monk, wins at Reading and Hull in the last week have silenced the dissenters while lifting his team to the verge of the play-off zone. If the alarmingly porous visiting defence will need to be mindful of the threat posed by Britt Assombalonga, Boro\u2019s record \u00a315m signing, Stockdale knows Monk is still presiding over a tricky philosophical transition. Ripping up the defensive blueprint that became his predecessor Aitor Karanka\u2019s hallmark on Teesside and shifting to a more expansive approach has not been easy and even those two wins have not fully erased the resultant strain. \u201cMiddlesbrough spent an awful lot of money in the summer and there\u2019s pressure on them to go straight back up, I don\u2019t think there\u2019s any doubt about that,\u201d says Stockdale, who expects to step back into the shadows during the international break, by which time Short should have sifted through the candidatures of, among others, Karanka and Southend\u2019s Phil Brown. \u201cBoro will try and play it down, but when you\u2019ve spent the amount of money they have, you have to be looking to go straight back up.\u201d Sunderland\u2019s more modest aim is simply staying in the second tier, but Stockdale refuses to subscribe to widespread and long-standing theories about the club\u2019s culture being counter-productive and the lifestyles and commitment of certain players sometimes less than professional. \u201cYou\u2019d have to ask the players if they feel guilty,\u201d he says. \u201cI don\u2019t see a lack of effort from the players but I do see a lack of confidence and maybe quality. The inquest into how it got to this can happen another time \u2026 but this wasn\u2019t an impossible job for Sam Allardyce.\u201d"
"12||Why are the police copping flak?It is possible that I have many things in common with Fenland police. You can\u2019t do Only Connect for as long as I have without knowing that one thing can always be linked to another. Four things can be a challenge, but a simple pair, such as Fenland police and me\u2026 off the top of my head: we both like to wear blue, we\u2019ve both dealt with a lot of drunks and neither of us has managed to stamp out hare-coursing in the county of Cambridgeshire. And here\u2019s another: we both tweeted pictures of ourselves dressed up for Halloween. In mine, I was in a gingham dress with a bloody plastic rib cage glued to my chest. You\u2019ll know at once which classic Halloween character I was. That\u2019s right. \u201cZombie Country Girl.\u201d So it said on the box, anyway. I buy my fancy dress from a company whose costumes are beautifully cheap but somewhat tangential to popular culture. They\u2019re like clothes made by 25th-century aliens trying to recreate Halloween from random fragments of our lost civilisation. One year, I was \u201cVampire Pumpkin\u201d. Another time, \u201cCobweb Gunman\u201d. A couple of years back, my husband was \u201cThe Ghostly Gentleman\u201d. The Ghostly Gentleman? Oh yes. That guy. So, if you find this column a bit below par, you may conclude that\u2019s because I\u2019ve wasted important thinking time tweeting pictures of myself as Zombie Country Girl. As it happens, it didn\u2019t take long. I\u2019m the wrong generation to spend an hour doing different pouts at my phone before Instagramming the poutiest. It was, perhaps, four minutes out of my week to stand in front of a door, do three snaps, pick one and tweet it. Nevertheless, you may feel that were it not for those trivial and self-indulgent four minutes, this column would have been a masterpiece of modern journalism: sweeping, incisive, laying bare the state of the nation while magically offending nobody. If so, you would share a world view with the tabloid press and everyone on the internet who damned Cambridgeshire Constabulary (Fenland police branch) for tweeting pictures of an officer in a Halloween mask \u201cinstead of catching burglars\u201d. The implication being, presumably, that it was a direct choice for the officers concerned: desperate burglee on the phone, stripy-jumpered miscreant still rifling through the jewels, Twitter page just loading, what\u2019s a copper to do? There has been a spate of this sort of story lately. A spree, if you will. Humberside police got into hot water when officers patrolling Hull Fair were spotted on the dodgems. Avon and Somerset police were given hell when officers painted their nails to mark anti-slavery day. The Sun gave the story a front page, it was so furious (or so pleased with its headline, \u201cTHE BOYS IN BLUE NAIL VARNISH\u201d). But this stuff is all lovely. Regular readers will know I\u2019m a big fan of remembering Robert Peel\u2019s maxim: \u201cThe police are the public and the public are the police.\u201d Most people say they would like more bobbies on the beat. If you\u2019d rather see a flak-vested heavy with a submachine gun than a cheery fellow on the bumper cars in a hi-vis jacket, then you and I will never be friends. Problems with actual law enforcement come down to slashed budgets and swingeing cuts, which is not the fault of individual officers who put their lives on the line whenever they stand up in their distinctive uniforms. Limited resources call for creative thinking \u2013 and surely nobody denies that we\u2019ve had a problem with racism in the force, leaving large parts of the population feeling alienated and victimised \u2013 so hurray for those officers who see bonding with the community as a key part of their job. The Cambs and Fenland police Twitter feeds, alongside genuinely funny pictures of that Halloween-masked officer sitting in the cells, are clearly trying to forge links and make themselves seem approachable rather than authoritarian. At this year\u2019s Hull Fair, where the police contingent whirled round in dodgem cars and a female officer was filmed dancing, there were only four arrests over eight days. Is that because the police were too busy arsing about to notice all the crime? Or is it, perhaps, because a peaceful and friendly police presence, joining in with \u201cthe general public\u201d that they also are themselves, keeps people behaving nicely? I was sorry to see the Daily Mail report that Cambridgeshire police have \u201cadmitted\u201d the Halloween photos were \u201cnot an appropriate use of time\u201d. I hope that\u2019s not true \u2013 the photos are still up online, so perhaps it isn\u2019t. Don\u2019t apologise, Cambridgeshire! You may be doing a world of good and certainly no harm. As for the nail varnish in Avon and Somerset, that was a campaign to raise awareness of the number of modern slaves trafficked into the UK who work in nail bars. The Sun, below its incredulous scoffing at the stupid pansy policemen who took part, reported that \u201csigns of slavery at nail bars include workers looking withdrawn; appearing younger than a customer would expect, seeming frightened, being unable to speak English and showing a resistance to being paid directly\u201d, alongside the Modern Slavery helpline number (08000 121 700). And all it took was a lick of nail paint to get that information put in front of millions of Sun readers! What brilliant, efficient policing! Yet hundreds complained. And David Davies MP commented: \u201cThere\u2019s no way I would have painted my nails \u2013 it\u2019s not going to help you catch enslavers, is it?\u201d Well it might, David, if people learn how to spot and report trafficking. But what would really help catch enslavers, and other criminals, is proper police funding. And your party is in government. So why don\u2019t you concentrate on that, flower, and stop worrying about what other people do with their hands? Except your parliamentary colleagues, of course."
"12||Heard too much on sexual harassment? No, not yet enoughHas it already, to learn from some of the country\u2019s senior thinkers, \u201cgone too far\u201d? Is it too late to join the witch hunt, jump on the bandwagon, succumb to the mass hysteria, swell the mob, sign up for the moral panic, add fervour to an atmosphere repeatedly described as \u201cfebrile\u201d and thereby lose \u2013 in the still more popular phrase when prominent men pronounce on complaints about sexual misdemeanours that fell short of actual rape \u2013 all sense of proportion? I do hope not. As tiresome as it must be, for men who feel, about Westminster, much as Martin Amis does on Harvey Weinstein, that current levels of \u201cpublic wrath\u201d exceed those they would normally recommend for mishaps that scarcely compare with lifelong concubinage in a seraglio; the strong suspicion of many, admittedly inexpert, women, is: it hardly begins to reflect private disquiet. Given, that is, the extent to which this male misuse of power extends far beyond politics, notwithstanding recent insider comment on the very specific climatic conditions that apparently increase the risk of being jumped on by a charismatic risk-taker who\u2019s missing his partner and kiddies, the poor chap, you ought to see the way some of those attractive women carry on. It\u2019s possible, of course, that guided by the kind of men who see the funny side of Weinstein jokes, women will shortly become aware of how foolish and obsessed they appear, when they go on (and on) about sexual assaults that fell way short of them being trafficked into modern slavery in a German industrial park by brutal pimps who took away their passports. Nag, nag, nag. We heard you the first time, love. Certainly the speed with which \u201cwitch hunt\u201d \u2013 an ignorant mob\u2019s pursuit of innocent women charged with imaginary offences \u2013 has become a favoured term for the reporting, by women, of incidents of harassment by real men, is unlikely to dispel the reticence that deters many from describing their experiences. It\u2019s a tricky thing, its targets have learned, to get right. Don\u2019t report an incident to the non-existent authorities in an unsympathetic era and Peter Hitchens will one day accuse you of being a failed feminist. Do report it later, in the hope of changing things, and his colleagues will shake their heads over bandwagons or revenge served too cold, or maybe wonder, if they are women left unscathed,why others are so much less resourceful than their younger selves. Just how many examples of unreported molestation, and of what gravity and vintage, it would be helpful to know for the future, would be most likely to persuade doubters that something is badly wrong? As opposed to confirming, to men who say they have women\u2019s interests at heart, that the current tide of complaints is a product of female hysteria, probably triggered by an unholy collision of raging oestrogen and excess political correctness. The massive response to the hashtag #MeToo, which has prompted women, around the world, painfully to speak about incidents they may have suppressed for years, was instantly converted by self-styled guardians of the sensible perspective, uniting behind the gaslighting banner, as the very reason to dismiss it. In fact, the popular criticism \u2013 \u201chas it all gone too far?\u201d \u2013 has exposed, almost comically, the degree to which many men genuinely believe a level of unwelcome sexualised engagement \u2013 \u201csugar tits\u201d, knee touching, office sex toys \u2013 should be as tolerable to a younger woman as it is natural to its male initiators: a social norm. Challenge that, and it\u2019s men, such as \u201chonourable\u201d, \u201ccompetent\u201d \u2013 dirty talking and groping \u2013 Michael Fallon, who are suddenly the victims; their uncooperative targets, not the sexual opportunists, are the ones who present \u201ca danger\u201d, even to national stability. The proposal that these men should just stop? Plainly hysterical and the death knell to all romance. So even if it is too late, too witchy and too bandwaggony, Fallon\u2019s self-serving bollocks about what is \u201cclearly not acceptable now\u201d finally prompts me to pipe up that I\u2019m yet another woman who can attest to what a certain kind of man in authority will do to juniors, even outside Westminster, in a society that tells him he has the right. I know, for certain, that when I was a student of 19, being assaulted by a tutor who had devised some pretext to get into my college room, was not, all those millions of years ago, something that I, or the very few people I told, felt was acceptable, even in the crazy era of Abba\u2019s Dancing Queen. Why, to quote our sense-of-proportion minded commentators, \u201cdredge\u201d, \u201cexhume\u201d or \u201cdig it up\u201d now \u2013 with all the risks to harmless flirtation posed by these noisome grudges? Because, for those persuaded by Fallon\u2019s line in exculpation, the experience was as shocking and distasteful to me then as it would be to anyone today. As, I now realise, following Anne Robinson\u2019s robust comments on sexual politics, a pathetically fragile young person, I failed to overcome the absence of any system for exposing such behaviour, along with the fear of not being believed and the repugnance of talking about it (even to my own family), asked to change my degree course, and left the scholarly perpetrator behind. And that\u2019s probably enough about my own leading perv, who will now be old enough and, I hope, frail enough, to be past creating opportunities to force his tongue into undergraduate mouths. Among the deterrents to reporting molestation, some powerfully detailed in Ronan Farrow\u2019s latest New Yorker piece, is that it can feel like giving the abuser a prominent role in his (sorry, or her!) victim\u2019s biography. You don\u2019t have to have big ideas about your own obsequies to understand why, for instance, Rose McGowan, who alleges rape by Weinstein, had earlier signed a settlement and stayed silent. \u201cI didn\u2019t want his name next to mine in my obituary.\u201d A shared unwillingness to assign lasting influence to sexual aggressors possibly unites, despite overtly contrasting responses,women who make light of sexual harassment and women who bury it. Some of us, when studying or working in places dominated by hostile, proudly unreconstructed men, will have tried both. To report molestation, in anything other than a jocular way, would have meant being humourless and difficult; to become practised in indifference fostered the belief that younger women should do the same. As with Fay Weldon on rape, so with the Daily Mail\u2019s crack team of snowflake assassins: resilience is one strategy for denying male control \u2013 except, we\u2019ve learned, it just perpetuates it. Ideally, action on unwanted male attention would not have required a single British #MeToo report, its prevalence being as obvious as Savile\u2019s iniquity. Among those recently perving in plain sight were Alan Clark, the Nazi-sympathising predator; Lord Rennard, the Lib Dems\u2019 pet groper; John Prescott, Tony Blair\u2019s ithyphallic deputy; Richard Branson, grinning juggler of random female bodies \u2013 all protected by the culture that now demands of people wanting progress: has it gone too far? It\u2019s only just begun. Lord Rennard has asked us to point out that the Metropolitan police investigated allegations of sexual harassment made against him and concluded that there would be no charges due to insufficient evidence, and Alistair Webster QC, appointed by the Lib Dems, concluded that there was insufficient evidence to hold a disciplinary hearing."
"10||Tory MPs demand bailout for care agencies in \u00a3400m backpay crisisSenior Tory MPs have joined calls for a government bailout of social care providers, after warnings that some will go bust as a result of a crisis over a \u00a3400m bill for back pay. Former cabinet ministers are among those concerned about the government\u2019s failure last week to guarantee financial aid to those affected. It comes at a time when the social care sector is already under extraordinary financial pressure. The crisis arose after a court ruled that carers staying overnight, known as sleep-in shifts, were entitled to the minimum wage, rather than a flat-rate \u00a330 which had been paid by care providers. Charities say they had been wrongly advised by government guidance. It means some face bills for back pay covering up to six years, with many saying they will simply fold without a bailout. After months of delay, the government announced a scheme that would give providers 15 months to calculate the amount they think they owe their workers. However, it did not give any guarantees that state support would be available to help them pay it. The concession has been criticised as inadequate by councils and charities facing big bills, while Tory MPs are also concerned. Some are demanding urgent action in the chancellor\u2019s budget later this month. Sarah Wollaston, chairwoman of the health select committee, said: \u201cUnless there is government funding for the backpay bill, many providers will go to the wall, and there is also a huge issue here for those individuals who receive direct payments. I hope this will be addressed in the budget.\u201d Peter Aldous, Tory MP for Waveney, said ministers had \u201cnot addressed the problem\u201d and called for financial help: \u201cThe government\u2019s announcement just adds to the uncertainty overhanging the sector,\u201d he said. \u201cI\u2019m minded that the government has said they wanted to work with the sector and providers to find a solution, and I do think they need to get back to that discussion. So far, we are not at that point. To be fair to this government, it is an issue that has landed on their watch so I have some sympathy. But the parties have to sit round the table, and there may need to be a financial package put down,\u201d he added. Kevin Hollinrake, Tory MP for Thirsk and Malton, said: \u201cThis needs resolving. Charities and other providers thought they were applying the rules correctly and now find they weren\u2019t, so it is very unfortunate and puts them in a very difficult situation. This could cost the sector, to their reckoning, \u00a3400m, which would put some of them out of the work of providing care. It\u2019s horrendous. We need a permanent solution.\u201d Labour is also pushing the government to draw up a financial package to ensure that social care providers are not forced out of business. Government officials say that ministers are still considering what action to take and whether financial aid should be made available. They said that EU state aid rules need to be investigated to determine whether any support, if deemed necessary, would be allowed. Tim Cooper, co-chair of the LD Voices coalition of care providers, said no providers would \u201ccome out unscathed\u201d. \u201cOne charity supporting 85 people have calculated that if they have to fund the liability, that comes to \u00a31.5m,\u201d he said. \u201cTheir reserves total \u00a31.4m, including properties and cash. Unless they get assistance, it is the end of the road. That is just one example of a number of charities in that position.This is not about employers trying to avoid paying staff. We are fully committed to paying staff, but it is difficult to do that when charities have not set money aside. We don\u2019t know if we\u2019re about to plunge over a precipice.\u201d Derek Lewis, chair of the charity Mencap, said: \u201cThe government has also kicked into the long grass the decision over whether or not it will give financial support for the sector. It is having immense consequences. At Royal Mencap, as one of the stronger organisations, we have had to put a stop on investment in new programmes, IT and employment. Staff are concerned. Some are sitting there in uncertainty. It is a massively destabilising situation to be in.\u201d A government spokesman said: \u201cThis scheme helps get workers the wages they are owed, while maintaining vital social care services for people in our communities. We have listened to the concerns of care providers and this scheme gives them clear time-scales and support to identify what they owe and need to pay their workers.\u201d"
"12||Once Britain\u2019s culture wielded global power. Now France shows us the wayIn 1798, Napoleon Bonaparte invaded Egypt in France\u2019s grandest display of its mission civilisatrice, that revolutionary desire to spread the Enlightenment principles of European civilisation. Accompanying Napoleon\u2019s troops was a battalion of scientists, historians, artists and archaeologists with clear instructions to collect Egypt\u2019s ancient riches for display and study back in Paris. Collecting the artefacts of the Middle East was part of conquering it. This week, the wheel of history turns full circle as President Macron (another French leader with imperial ambitions) flies to the Gulf to open Louvre Abu Dhabi and, two centuries on, now offers up France\u2019s cultural treasures for display and study. While Napoleon\u2019s invasion was hard power, Macron\u2019s visit is all about the long-term insinuation of soft power. Yet it signals a hard truth: if Brexit Britain is going to find its feet as a global player, we need to be thinking about similarly ambitious displays of cultural bravado. What the French and Emirati curators have built is a thing of great beauty. As you drive past the cranes of Port Zayed and cross the highway on to Saadiyat Island, you catch your first glimpse of Jean Nouvel\u2019s subtle, silvery museum dome amid the sand and construction sites. In contrast to the skyscrapers and faux Mughal aesthetic, the low-hung building is neither bombastic nor derivative. It has a liminal feel between land and water, while its 180m diameter roof is crisscrossed with thousands of star shapes turning the beating sunlight into shards of rain. This is more than a museum development; it is a mini-medina of galleries, cafes and children\u2019s centres, with the cooling breeze and blue expanse of the Gulf visible at either end. The real magic is what sits inside the air-conditioned gallery pods: a trove of early 17th-century Portuguese screens, ancient Egyptian hippopotamus figurines and 15th-century Ottoman turban helmets alongside Van Gogh self-portraits, Rodin bronzes and Giacometti statues. The collection is the product of a series of loans from France\u2019s leading national museums and 15 years of auction house purchases by the emirate\u2019s wealth funds. This is not a branch office of the Parisian Louvre, but a genuinely shared endeavour. As the first universal museum to open in the Arab world, Louvre Abu Dhabi\u2019s ambition is to showcase \u201cthe shared human stories across civilisations and cultures\u201d. From jewellery to statuary, medieval maps to opaque watercolours, the galleries aim to draw out the universal human experience of family, divinity, commerce, exploration and death. In contrast to a familiar European account of such \u201cshared civilisations\u201d, the project has produced a genuinely global response devoid of obvious western weighting. \u201cThe opening of Louvre Abu Dhabi will mark a seismic shift of the global museum network towards the south,\u201d writes the commentator Sultan Al Qassemi. Louvre director Jean-Luc Martinez similarly thinks the museum \u201cis helping us to change perspective\u2026 we are obliged to see the world differently, with Europe or America in the periphery and no longer at the centre\u201d. The experience is stunning: scholarly yet exciting, beautiful yet informative and, above all, in its confident array of Chinese with Egyptian with Italian artefacts, intellectually provocative. For the United Arab Emirates, the new Louvre is a big deal. On the one hand, it is part of a commercial strategy to think beyond petroleum and attract high-end tourism, with the museum sitting alongside beach resorts and smart hotels. More importantly, the development signifies the rise of the nation, from struggling pearl fishing settlement to major geopolitical player. It isn\u2019t simply the cachet of the partnership (which has come at quite a price), but the broader message of global, cultural exchange at the heart of which sits the Gulf. \u201cLouvre Abu Dhabi is an instrument to express what we believe the UAE can bring to the world,\u201d is how one sheikh puts it. For the museum sector, this is a dramatic escalation of our diplomatic function. Twenty years ago, the opening of the Guggenheim in Bilbao signalled a new role for cultural institutions in promoting urban regeneration. Today, Louvre Abu Dhabi suggests the task has expanded into nation-building as established arts institutions, such as the Pompidou and Guggenheim, leverage their cultural capital to support forward-looking administrations. And it seems to work when it is not simply a lucrative franchise deal by a western brand but a considered partnership predicated on shared learning and cultural exchange. In the case of the UAE, this remarkable extension of French cultural prowess is happening in a part of the world that, since the late 19th century, has had strong British ties. Traditionally, we have been told that soft power has to be divorced from the state: the power of Hollywood or the reach of the BBC are sustained by their independence from Washington or Westminster. But the sheer might of Louvre Abu Dhabi is revealing the need for much more strategic state support. None of which is to suggest we are slouches. From the World Service to Harry Potter to Downton Abbey to Harry Styles, the British creative industries are an export phenomenon. Next week, the British Museum will unveil a major new partnership with museums in Mumbai exploring Indian religious culture. At the V&amp;A, some 1.8 million people have seen our David Bowie Is exhibition, while in December we will be opening a new gallery in Shenzhen to put our storehouse of design and innovation at the heart of the booming Pearl River delta. The government has supported these programmes through tax-relief schemes, but with the budgets of the BBC, British Council and Arts Council all under pressure, it is going to prove a real challenge to retain our influence. The French press likes to patronise the Abu Dhabi initiative as \u201cthe Louvre of the Sand\u201d. But I think, in the words of Iris Murdoch, \u201canything which alters consciousness in the direction of unselfishness, objectivity and realism\u201d is an act of great virtue. For Jean Nouvel\u2019s building\u2019s real brilliance is to upend Napoleon. The Louvre\u2019s landing on Saadiyat Island is a signal renunciation of Bonapartist colonialism and western cultural appropriation. It is an end to orientalism. And, to my mind, it is a template for the mix of ingenuity, vision and spirit of collaboration which post-Brexit Britain will need to display on the world stage. Tristram Hunt is director of the V&amp;A"
"9||Letters: our universities betray both reason and humanity \r\nI admire Will Hutton\u2019s writings enormously, but I have to disagree when he holds up our universities as centres of enlightenment (\u201cLeftie? Yes, and proud to be among those upholding Enlightenment values\u201d, Comment). For more than 40 years, I have argued that universities, as at present constituted, betray both reason and humanity. If universities really devoted reason to the task of helping to promote human welfare they would give absolute intellectual priority to improving the articulation of our grave global problems and proposing and critically assessing possible solutions. Intelligent public education about what our problems are, and what we should do about them, would be a primary academic task. The pursuit of knowledge would be important, but secondary. The basic intellectual aim would be not specialised knowledge but social wisdom. That is not how our universities are organised or what they seek to do. Much worse, even though the argument that they betray both reason and humanity has been in the public domain for more than 40 years, it has been ignored. Nicholas Maxwell Emeritus reader, University College London Barbuda must pay its way Barbuda seems to have been particularly badly hit by Hurricane Irma and is demanding that the UK taxpayer give large amounts towards its reconstruction (News). The UK has already pledged \u00a362m in addition to the cost of the relief efforts to help tax havens in the Caribbean hit by the hurricane. These are places where extremely wealthy individuals and companies register in order not to contribute to the UK community. It is not right that they should now be subsidised by UK taxpayers while we, apparently, cannot even afford to fund our own public services. It is right to help in an emergency, but these places must now tax these people properly and they should fund any reconstruction. Tax avoiders must not be allowed to freeload off UK taxpayers. Both governments should wake up. C Terry London SW18 Superficial observation Lucy Rock\u2019s interview with Esther Perel (\u201cHaving an affair need not end a marriage. In fact, it can be healthy\u201d, News) managed to include the lines \u201c... she declares, flashing plum coloured nail varnish and delicate gold hand chains as she gesticulates\u201d and \u201c... she says, flicking back her asymmetrical caramel-streaked bob and fixing me with eyes lined with smoky black eyeliner\u201d. Horror. A fashionable, successful woman wears nail varnish, has a decent hairstyle and knows how to apply eye make-up. Come on, you can do better. Marion Redfern Bromborugh, Wirral Perils of being an immigrant Nick Cohen\u2019s call that Brexit is a crisis of citizenship is more significant than he suggests (\u201cWhere are the heroes who will lead the Brexit retreat?\u201d, Comment). Most of the \u201cUgandan Asians\u201d who Idi Amin sought to expel in 1972 were British citizens. The 27,000 who subsequently settled here had the right to do so under the 1948 British Nationality Act. That Britain wished to refuse them entry was a consequence of Commonwealth Immigration Acts, which gradually stripped rights away from darker citizens within the Commonwealth. The wish to exclude EU citizens from the body politic is, thus, not new; it builds on previous exclusions by which Britain turned citizens into migrants and made their rights precarious. Prof Gurminder K Bhambra University of Sussex No cure for bumptious bores! David Bradnack (Letters)says it is not clear why smokers and the overweight should receive equal priority in healthcare. Why stop at that? Why not deprioritise anyone who crosses the road, participates in sports, ventures out in the rain or any of a thousand risky behaviours? Oh, and what about self-righteous, pompous, judgmental bores? Andy Cook Holmfirth Monarch pensions are safe I was disappointed by your article \u201cMonarch collapse leaves yet another pension fund up in the air\u201d (Business). The Monarch pension fund is not \u201cup in the air\u201d. The scheme transferred to the PPF in 2016. All members are protected and there are no implications for them following the recent insolvency. The article also incorrectly implies that companies are able to \u201cdump\u201d their pensions into the PPF. We and the Pensions Regulator have a hard line on this. The PPF is in a financially strong position with reserves of \u00a36.1bn. Our Funding Strategy shows we are on course to meet all current and future claims with a high degree of certainty. Before we existed, people who had worked all their lives saving for retirement were sometimes left with nothing when their employer went bust. We need to avoid wrongly creating fear that the situation might be returning. Alan Rubenstein Chief Executive, Pension Protection Fund"
"12||The Observer view on Donald Trump\u2019s tour of AsiaThe phrase \u201cbull in a china shop\u201d might have been coined to describe this week\u2019s tour of Asia by Donald Trump. During last year\u2019s presidential election campaign, he raged against China, terming it an \u201cenemy\u201d and accusing Beijing of \u201craping\u201d America with predatory trade practices. With characteristic insensitivity, he suggested Japan should acquire nuclear weapons and South Korea should pay more for its defence. He promised to tear up the multilateral Trans-Pacific Partnership, a promise he then fulfilled. And he vowed to eliminate the threat posed by North Korea by any means, including military action. Trump\u2019s behaviour in office has proved to be every bit as destabilising for the Asia-Pacific region partly because of what he has not done. His White House has singularly failed to enunciate a vision and a policy for a region that all agree is central to America\u2019s 21st-century prosperity and security. Trump claimed Barack Obama\u2019s \u201cpivot to Asia\u201d had failed in its primary aim of managing and channelling China\u2019s expanding geopolitical influence. But he has put nothing in its place. Long-time allies no longer know with certainty where the US stands. What Trump did do was introduce fear and confusion. His escalating war of words with Kim Jong-un, North Korea\u2019s dictator, has pushed Pyongyang into accelerating its efforts to build nuclear-armed missiles capable of striking the US mainland. Trump\u2019s threat to \u201ctotally destroy\u201d the country conjured the spectre of nuclear war, alarming friends and foes alike. Yet Trump\u2019s acute need for Beijing\u2019s help in sanctioning Kim has drawn him into an improbably fawning relationship with Xi Jinping, China\u2019s strongman president, who he will meet. His pledge to shift the bilateral relationship radically in America\u2019s favour has given way to unhealthy obsequiousness. He recently referred to Xi as the \u201cking of China\u201d. Trump\u2019s lack of a clear vision, his studied ignorance of key policy issues, his vanity and gullibility, plus his tendency to fly off the handle, present his Chinese hosts with a problem. It should not be difficult to get the better, diplomatically speaking, of such a flawed interlocutor. On the other hand, sending Trump home empty-handed would be to risk more unpredictable explosions. That is why observers predict Xi will offer some high-profile but essentially cosmetic concessions on trade, to satisfy Trump\u2019s \u201cAmerica \u201d agenda and allow him to boast of a big success. There may be Chinese promises to help pressure North Korea. But they will not go much beyond current measures. This is the narrow script tacitly agreed by Trump advisers. Such an outcome would leave critical issues unaddressed that, if allowed to fester, could ultimately move US-China relations from competition to direct confrontation. One is the uncomfortable reality, for the American economy and workforce, that China continues to export three times more goods to the US than it imports. This gaping trade imbalance is highly symbolic of China\u2019s rise and America\u2019s relative fall. Another salient issue is Trump\u2019s failure to seriously tackle Chinese military expansionism in the East and South China seas or understand its negative implications for continued confidence in US backing for Japan, Taiwan, Indonesia and others. China under Xi, who was crowned de facto leader for life at last month\u2019s Communist party congress, poses an even more fundamental challenge. Its disdain for open, democratic governance, free elections, civil rights, independent judges and freedom of speech and religion is deeply undermining of western values. Beijing\u2019s ruthless treatment of pro-democracy campaigners in Hong Kong and its persecution of dissenting writers are cases in point. Its contempt for human rights, broadly defined, defies the system of universal standards created through the UN after 1945. And it is not merely a domestic problem. Through its rising global profile and, for example, its increased use of soft power tools such as investment and peace building in South Sudan and the Horn of Africa, China is effectively exporting its governance model to the world. A study by the Atlantic Council, a Washington thinktank, notes the Asia-Pacific region will be the world\u2019s most economically dynamic by 2050 and that regional states are already spending more than Europe on defence. A fundamental power shift is under way, it says, and the rules-based international order is fraying. The US response should be a strengthening of existing security alliances in tandem with \u201chard-headed engagement\u201d with Beijing. It should promote \u201cfundamental values\u201d across the region, while always seeking common ground, where possible, with China. But Washington should not be in any doubt, the study says: the \u201cTrans-Pacific Century\u201d has begun. Will a man like Donald Trump listen to such sensible advice? Does he even accept the premise, namely, that the era of American dominance is ending? It\u2019s unlikely. The best that can be hoped is that Trump will forgo more verbal rampages this week and stick to the script. If, as some predict, North Korea waves a red rag and fires off another missile by way of greeting, his handlers may just have to tie him down."
"12||Theresa May could be the ideal woman to lead the clean-up of WestminsterIt is important to understand why Sir Michael Fallon is no longer secretary of state for defence. He went not because he placed an uninvited hand on the knee of a female journalist at a boozy party conference dinner 15 years ago. Julia Hartley-Brewer, the target of his unwanted advances, says that losing his seat in the cabinet would be a \u201cridiculous\u201d penalty for that. Anyone with an IQ in double figures can twig that this is not why he quit. Nor did he go because he made a lewd remark to Angela Leadsom, though it didn\u2019t help his cause when she brought this complaint to the prime minister\u2019s inner circle when they were debating his fate. According to the most convincing accounts of the events that led to his departure, the prime minister had come to her own conclusion that he couldn\u2019t remain in office. As she writes in the Observer today, the journalist Jane Merrick had been in touch with the prime minister\u2019s office shortly before he quit, to tell them that Sir Michael had \u201clunged at\u201d her. So I\u2019m doubtful whether \u201cresign\u201d is the correct word for his departure. This has the smell of a sacking dressed up to look like a resignation. There\u2019s a clue in the cool tone of the letters that he exchanged with Theresa May. He expressed his \u201cutmost admiration\u201d for the armed forces and pledged to \u201csupport the government\u201d; he said not a word in esteem of the prime minister and made no promise to continue to support her personally. He had not responded to Ms Merrick\u2019s account at the time of writing. He has says other accusations against him are false. The removal of her defence secretary suggests that Mrs May has a better appreciation of the seriousness of the storm over sexual harassment and abuse that now swirls around Westminster than some of her colleagues. When the \u201cWeinstein effect\u201d first began to blow through London SW1, the response of some of its denizens was to contend that there was no legitimate reason for anyone to get outraged. It was even, in some quarters, being treated as a bit of a giggle. \u201cKneegate\u201d, they chortled. Getting a proper focus on the meaning of this moment hasn\u2019t been helped by the \u201cspreadsheet of shame\u201d that has done the rounds. This lists allegations of assault and behaviour that are nasty but not illegal and conflates those with tittle-tattle about consensual relationships and the sexual peccadilloes of some parliamentarians. The appellation \u201cPalace of Pestminster\u201d trivialises. \u201cSexminster\u201d won\u2019t do either. This is not an old-fashioned \u201csex scandal\u201d of the type that felled Tory ministers during Sir John Major\u2019s time at Number 10, when the tabloids exposed their relationships with women who were not their wives. The gravest accusation has come from a Labour activist. Bex Bailey says she was raped at the age of 19 by a senior colleague at a party event and told by another party official not to report it. No party is unstained and the leaders of both the main parties are under pressure. Kelvin Hopkins, a veteran comrade of Jeremy Corbyn, has been suspended while there is an investigation of complaints about his conduct. Mr Corbyn has yet to explain why he had Mr Hopkins, who admits to sending a suggestive text to a woman nearly five decades younger, but denies everything else, in the shadow cabinet in spite of warnings about the sexual harassment claim against him. This is trouble for all the parties, but the fallout will be almost certainly more consequential for the government because it is the government. The more so because, before this storm broke, it was already an extremely brittle and riven government. Two more of Mrs May\u2019s ministers \u2013 Mark Garnier and Damian Green \u2013 are being investigated by the Cabinet Office. It is especially nightmarish for her that one of them is Mr Green, her de facto deputy, the chairman of a host of key cabinet committees, one of her oldest friends in politics and someone she has depended on very heavily since she lost her majority at the election. Mr Green has been instrumental in keeping the May show just about on the road. He denies inappropriate behaviour towards a much younger woman and has tooled up with libel lawyers. His case will be investigated by Sue Gray, the director general of propriety and ethics at the Cabinet Office. Ms Gray has enormous experience \u2013 she was there for the expenses scandal \u2013 and has a high reputation. But to the outside world it will look mighty strange that a civil servant who works at the Cabinet Office is investigating the politician who is in charge of the Cabinet Office. Once again, we are faced with the ancient question, which parliament has often struggled with and never satisfactorily resolved, of who polices the politicians, who judges the lawmakers. It is true that abuses of power can and do happen in any kind of workplace, not just Hollywood and Westminster. What makes politics and showbusiness different is that both are trades in which there is an extremely high premium on personal connections and patronage. This greatly amplifies the opportunities for abusers to exploit power imbalances. MPs operate like small businesses, employers in their own right, in charge of the hiring and firing of their own staff. Those staff, very often people with their own political ambitions, are frequently much younger than the employers who can make or break careers. Safeguards for staff that have become a routine part of the company architecture in businesses do not exist at Westminster. That structural defect is compounded by a cultural one. When confronted with scandal, the first impulse of politics is to hush it up. Ms Bailey says she was told to keep quiet on the grounds that pursuing her case would damage her career. Victims of sexual harassment, abuse and assault have been encouraged to stay silent because going public will hurt the tribe. Political parties are not incentivised to root out and deal with bad conduct within their own ranks. The clannish instinct is to cover up rather than give ammunition to opponents and the media. This has contributed to an environment in which sexual predators and bullies think they can behave disgustingly \u2013 in the most serious cases, criminally \u2013 and get away with it. It is now well known that the Tory whips used to keep \u201ca little black book\u201d, in which were detailed the character defects of their MPs. Labour whips did much the same. Information is power in politics and personal information can be the most potent weapon of all. Secrets are a valuable currency at Westminster. Knowledge of misconduct could be used to coerce parliamentarians to vote the way their leaders wanted them to vote. It was sometimes \u2013 to use plain language \u2013 a tool of political blackmail. Both parties will insist that this practice doesn\u2019t go on any more, but it remains the case that whips often know things about MPs that the parliamentarians wouldn\u2019t want to have to explain either to their families or in front of a television camera. This is useful leverage and the more so when the parliamentary arithmetic is as precarious as it is today. It is a tool parties will not gladly relinquish, but whips cannot go on being enforcers of loyalty and keepers of secrets at the same time as supposedly being a sort of human resources department. A helpline for abused or harassed staff has already been announced. New codes of conduct are being written. Mrs May will meet other party leaders tomorrow to discuss further action. All have an incentive to deal with this before it becomes any more corrosive to the reputation of parliament. There is now great pressure to establish a mechanism, independent of partisan and self-interested party meddling, for dealing with complaints about sexual predation and bullying. This will only work if victims can have confidence in it. Loads of new rules won\u2019t be worth much unless they are accompanied by a determination to enforce them. The most important thing to look for is a cultural shift in which abusive behaviour is no longer tolerated and hushed up, but faced and dealt with. Mrs May could be the right woman at the right time in the right office to lead that. From what I know of this prime minister, she will have a visceral disgust of predatory men who prey on younger people. She first made her name telling her fellow Tories that they had to stop being \u201cthe nasty party\u201d. Her immediate responses have drawn compliments from unexpected quarters. Harriet Harman, Labour\u2019s former deputy leader, does not lightly praise a Tory. She has commended Mrs May for being robust. The prime minister\u2019s best instincts will be with Ruth Davidson, the Tory leader in Scotland, when she declares that they must \u201cclean out the stables\u201d. This would be easier advice to follow if Mrs May was a stronger prime minister. Her desire to do the right thing will be in contention with the brittle context in which she is operating. More revelations and more resignations will threaten further destabilisation of an already fragile and factionalised government. It could make a weak leader even weaker. Not acting will run exactly the same risk. Mrs May should follow her best instincts. If she needs to swing the axe again, she ought to do so."
"6||Screenwriter Kay Mellor reveals she was sexually assaulted in TV executive\u2019s officeTelevision writer Kay Mellor, the powerhouse creator of hit shows from Band of Gold to the new Love, Lies and Records, has spoken out for the first time about her sexual assault at the hands of a senior TV executive earlier in her career. Mellor was in her 30s and working as a producer at Granada when the unnamed executive, who is now dead, expressed an interest in developing one of her scripts, a comedy drama called Annie\u2019s Back about a mother who moves in with her adult daughters. \u201cI got a call from his secretary who said he would like to see you and went up in the lift to his office on a floor I\u2019d never been to before,\u201d Mellor told the Observer. \u201cI knocked on the door and he opened it and he said: \u201cCome in.\u201d He was very friendly, a real pillar of the community type and at first everything was fine. He was very positive about the project and said all the right things about how much it made him laugh and what a great premise it was but then the atmosphere started to change. \u201cHe asked if I wanted a drink. I said no I\u2019ve got a script conference to get back down for. He insisted that I sat on the sofa and then turned the conversation back to the script. To be honest I thought he was going to say \u2018write up the first episode and we\u2019ll see\u2019 but instead he sat down very close to me, which made me uncomfortable and then lunged at me and tried to kiss me. I pulled away and said: \u2018I\u2019m sorry this is not what I\u2019m doing here\u2019 and he replied: \u2018Oh really \u2013 what did you come up here for then? What did think you were doing?\u2019 I was gobsmacked. I kept thinking have I done something wrong here? Then just as I was heading to open the door he said \u2018Kay\u2019. I turned around and he\u2019d exposed himself. He stood there looking at me and said: \u2018Is this what you want?\u2019\u2009\u201d Mellor went back to her office, slammed the door and sat there feeling stunned. \u201cI never mentioned it to another living soul, not even my husband Anthony. The only people who knew were him and me and that\u2019s terrible to think about now \u2013 because he was the guilty one so why did I think that I shared the blame? I felt soiled by the experience as though I was a failure for having even gone up there thinking that it was about getting a commission.\u201d She decided to move on from Granada. \u201cI probably would have left anyway because I wanted to write but the underlying reason was that I never wanted to see his face again,\u201d she said. \u201cI left the company two and a half weeks after the incident happened and I shredded the script for Annie\u2019s Back. It felt like a link and I never wanted it to get made.\u201d Mellor\u2019s experience forms part of a growing wave of female and male voices talking about their experience of sexual harassment and abuse. In addition to the multiple accusations against Harvey Weinstein, last week saw Dustin Hoffman accused of two incidents of sexual harassment, Michael Fallon resign as defence secretary over \u201cinappropriate behaviour\u201d and Scotland Yard announce an investigation into allegations of sexual assault involving actor Kevin Spacey. Netflix also said it will cease working with Spacey on its show House of Cards and is declining to release a film starring him. The society magazine Tatler issued an \u201cunreserved apology\u201d to the actor Daisy Lewis after a segment stated that she was \u201cloud. Which makes her fun at a party. And in bed. Probably.\u201d She said on Twitter: \u201cI\u2019m really shocked and upset by this. But thankfully I\u2019m \u2018loud\u2019 enough to say it. Does anyone at Tatler read the news?\u201d Mellor says: \u201cI think there are probably a lot of men in all walks of life and many different professions who are quavering in their boots right now because there is going to be an outpouring of this stuff. This is just the beginning.\u201d \u201cWe need to have a conversation about this and we need to have it loudly. We need to talk about why it\u2019s not OK to use belittling language, to put your hands on people\u2019s knees, to lunge at women, to abuse your position of power in any way. It\u2019s not funny and it\u2019s not a joke.\u201d She regrets not reporting her experience at the time. \u201cIn hindsight I should have said something immediately but I just felt so insulted by him. I had written five stage plays, I had two children, I was a grownup with a responsible job and he managed to make me feel sullied and demeaned and as though this was something I should never speak about.\u201d Despite that, she has no wish to name her attacker. \u201cHad he still been alive I would have named him because I would have liked to look him in the eye and said why did you do that to me? But naming him once he\u2019s dead does nobody any good. What happened could have put me off working in this industry for life but it didn\u2019t. Instead I worked myself into a powerful position so that I could own my own company and champion new young writers, particularly young female writers. I worked myself into a position where that could never happen to me again.\u201d Mellor hopes that talking openly will encourage other women to come forward. \u201cMy biggest hope is that if any woman or man is in the position that I was in,reading this or knowing that other person has come out and spoken about their experience might enable them to speak out themselves and that in turn might stop the next person from being attacked, or make the next man think twice before doing something like this. Hopefully there will be a ripple effect and the effects of that ripple will be felt for some time.\u201d"
"4||The big issue: joint ventures leave poorest at the mercy of property developersThe Haringey Development Vehicle (HDV), a joint venture between the council and a multinational property developer, addresses the needs of 9,000 households for council homes, according to Dave Hill (\u201cRegeneration \u2013 or excluding the poor? Labour divides in bitter housing battle\u201d, Viewpoint), but the figures don\u2019t add up. Only 2,000 of the 5,000 new units to be built will be \u201caffordable\u201d, when what is needed is social housing at 50-60% of market value, and the plan to bulldoze the Northumberland Park estate will displace a further 1,300 households, so where is the benefit to council tenants? Who will ensure the tenants\u2019 interests in a 50-50 joint venture deal with a multinational developer? The current council administration handed over Hornsey town hall and its back lot for a mere \u00a33.5m even when the foreign buyer, FEC, had forecast profits of \u00a327m with its planning application. Last week, residents learned \u00a33.5m is now to be handed back to FEC as an incentive for the building of 11 \u201caffordable\u201d units, yet Claire Kober, the leader of the council, professed to know nothing about it. How can this team be trusted with HDV, a gamble involving \u00a32bn of our public assets? There are alternatives. In neighbouring Hackney, a huge regeneration project will deliver 2,760 homes and more than 30% are for social rent. Opposition to HDV has nothing to do with alleged \u201cideological purity\u201d. It is about informed concern that poorer citizens of Haringey have a home, now and in future. Holly Aylett Haringey Both as a Haringey resident and as a professor of urban development economics, I object to Dave Hill\u2019s article for its supercilious ad hominem style and for being so wrong in its judgments. It is pretty clear that those on housing lists have a better chance of homes they can afford if \u201cregeneration\u201d is minimised. And with a more progressive government now on the cards, it\u2019s bizarre to make a 20-year commitment to the kind of property development represented by the HDV and Lendlease. Michael Edwards UCL Bartlett School of Planning, London N4 How does a wholly owned vehicle work? State aid rules dictate that it has to repay a loan at a commercial rate. So the new vehicle will need to make decent margins on new developments to meet the costs. This will necessitate a mix of to-buy properties and enough rent revenue to cover costs. It would be interesting to see what proportion of social rent homes would be financially viable in such a scheme. Hopefully, more than 30%, but definitely not 100%. So the council-owned vehicle will also face hard choices in providing social rent homes within mixed developments. There would also be the issue of land. If councillors such as Pat Berryman want to keep Northumberland Park as it is, where else would you build? And is he really happy with the stock that currently exists there, most of which are two- bedroom homes at best, I believe? Plus that\u2019s an awful lot of risk borne totally by the council. So, yes, it can be done, but there are many risks and questions, very few of which I have heard answered. Of course, the council could finance a couple of hundred units but that doesn\u2019t come close to demand. Or we can tell everyone to sit tight and wait for a Labour government to come along and legislate to allow councils to borrow to build, which is by far the most sensible solution to the problem. Posted online"
"12||Jess Phillips: a terrible, toxic week in WestminsterThe atmosphere in parliament last week was so toxic, so noxious that I choked. In the past, I\u2019ve been accused of wanting to murder people because I\u2019ve used the phrase \u201cstab in the back\u201d. What can I say? Some people are stupid and disappointing. This time, I am speaking literally. I arrived home after a longer-than-normal week away in Westminster. I walked to a restaurant where we planned to celebrate my son\u2019s postponed ninth birthday dinner. I switched off my phone and greeted my family. In that moment of release, all of a sudden I couldn\u2019t breathe, I couldn\u2019t focus and I was burning up. I fled and had to sit outside in the cold November night and try desperately to take in the air of my home town. My week was not fun and before I dive into the detail of it I want to offer a disclaimer: I am not playing the victim. I am not a victim. I was not triggered. I am not a snowflake \u2013 I am an avalanche. To the bystander, a steady stream of accusations popped up as the week unfolded. For me and a few others, it was constant. Like a patriarchal tinnitus. Almost all the allegations that hit the headlines, from my side at least, were as revelatory as the winner of this year\u2019s Bake Off final. People often say it is hard to get victims to come forward, but I have never found this to be the case. If you make yourself open, non-judgmental and if you know what you are talking about, people come and tell you when crap is happening to them. I have been lining up pro bono lawyers, making referrals, listening to stories, reading over statements, arranging meetings for disclosure, helping people to report into this or that process. I have acted like a heavy and a nursemaid within the same half hour. Then, in a moment of quiet, I\u2019d nip down from my office to grab a cup of tea and walk past some of the men I knew were lawyering up or trip over the chair of the man we all know had been sexting a teenager who came to him for a job. There he was, keeping his diary appointments, while I cancelled all of mine to try to mop up their mess. His diary appointments were probably with fancy bloody businesses or, I don\u2019t know, chats about how he\u2019s hopeful he\u2019ll still win beard of the year. I\u2019m pleased he didn\u2019t miss them; I am sorry to all those I cancelled. I am sorry to the victims of violence who needed help in my constituency office where I would normally be on a Thursday and Friday. I am sorry to the people whose emails I just haven\u2019t got around to answering. Perhaps I\u2019ll forward last week\u2019s casework to Stephen Crabb for him to handle \u2013 he seems to be cracking on. But, then again, probably best not: I\u2019m not sure the people with problem neighbours want bothering with sexts. I suppose we can say one thing for the revelations so far \u2013 there seems to a grubby pairing system forming \u2013 one of ours lost the whip and so did one of theirs. So worry not, good people of the UK, the votes in parliament will remain the same. Most of the men I saw around Westminster last week expressed solidarity and asked what they could do to help. Some have been a brilliant support, giving both space and, where it was needed, credibility to the women\u2019s voices. Some of my colleagues \u2013 of both sexes and most parties \u2013 have, however, plumped for the subtle discrediting of the allegations. They have been acting out pantomime dame levels of pearl clutching: \u201cMust we be locked away behind screens?\u201d Or: \u201cI\u2019d pass you the milk, but I don\u2019t want to be accused of invading your space.\u201d Then there is the \u201cwhataboutery\u201d of people wanting an exhaustive list of exactly what is and isn\u2019t acceptable. It\u2019s as if every single public and voluntary sector employer in the land doesn\u2019t already have a perfectly simple safeguarding policy in place. Where did these people come from? Add to this a layer of newspapers and pundits, shouting \u201chysteria\u201d and \u201cwitch-hunt\u201d and the inevitable Twitter propaganda bots, making out that caring about sexual harassment when it happens on your own side makes you a traitor ready for the gulag. Plus: the women telling us that a bit of knee touching should be dismissed and expected and we should jolly well toughen up. Bingo \u2013 you\u2019ve got yourself a backlash. So boring in its predictability, so toxic in its effectiveness. But it wasn\u2019t knee touching that did it for Michael Fallon was it? It was alleged sexual assault. There was one positive to the week and that was sorority. It happened cross party, with Tory women ringing me up to express dismay and seeking help for their own woes. Others stepped up to cover things while I met victims or officials. The minister Anne Milton said from the dispatch box, in a timely debate on sexual harassment in our schools, that parliament \u201csmelt of boys\u201d. Theresa May missed a trick (which seems to be her party piece) when she picked her new chief whip. If there was ever a time she needed a woman such as Anne Milton cracking the whip, it is now. That said, the women of the Labour party rocked last week. Without any need for co-ordination, a feminist sixth sense kicked in and we got it together. Bex Bailey\u2019s alleged rape and the news of how the Labour party didn\u2019t handle it stepped up our long battle to improve the sexual harassment policy in the party. Last week, a group of Labour MPs, councillors and activists all spoke with one voice in our demands for a robust, independent system for handling sexual harassment. Never would one of us appear without pushing our goal. Stella Creasy, whose office is opposite mine, had a sort of WWF wrestling tag team thing going on. We would tag each other into the battle as we also tried to carry on with our actual jobs. She burst into my office at one point, when I was with some visitors, and we managed to have a whole campaign planning \u201cconversation\u201d without either of us actually speaking. Feminist semaphore or femaphore. There was the sharing out, among many female MPs and the activists who were pushing with us, of the gruelling media rounds to get the message out and constant contact with the party, the leader\u2019s office. Every evening, some emergency meeting; every late night, a conversation with one woman or another about what the next steps were for the following eight hours. It felt like the politics and the practice I came into parliament for. Alas, it was in response to the politics and the practice I came in to stop. Reader, we won. See you this week for more of the same."
"4||For the recordAn ambiguous paragraph in a piece on a London council\u2019s housing regeneration scheme may have given the impression that the opposition in Haringey\u2019s council chamber is made up of Green and Socialist Workers party activists, anarchists and Liberal Democrats. To be clear: Labour has 49 councillors on the council; eight Liberal Democrat councillors form the opposition (\u201cRegeneration \u2013 or excluding the poor? Labour divides in bitter housing battle\u201d, Viewpoint, page 30). A piece on digital disruption (\u201cTrump, Assange, Bannon, Farage\u2026 bound together in an unholy alliance\u201d, Comment, last week, page 33), said that the broadcaster RT, formerly known as Russia Today, \u201cwas banned last week from Twitter\u201d. The ban extends only to its advertising, which Twitter announced it was excluding following its investigations and the US intelligence community\u2019s conclusion that RT attempted to interfere with the election on behalf of the Russian government. Usage corner: \u201c\u2026 risking plenty in order to affect change \u2026\u201d: affect (alter); effect (bring about). (First paragraph, \u201cA year on from Trump\u2019s pussy grab, nothing has changed\u201d, Magazine, last week, page 3). Write to Stephen Pritchard, Readers\u2019 Editor, the Observer, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU, email observer.readers@observer.co.uk tel 0203 353 4656"
"19||One step beyond organic or free-range: Dutch farmer\u2019s chickens lay carbon-neutral eggsThere\u2019s the much-criticised battery hen egg, and then the pricier organic and free-range varieties. But for the truly ethically committed, how about the carbon-neutral egg, laid in what has been billed as the world\u2019s most environmentally friendly farm? Dutch stores are now selling so-called \u201cKipster eggs\u201d laid at a shiny new farm near the south-eastern city of Venray. \u201cKip\u201d means chicken in Dutch, \u201cster\u201d means star, and it\u2019s no coincidence the name rhymes with hipster. The intention is to rethink the place of animals in the food chain, according to Ruud Zanders, the poultry farmer and university lecturer behind the farm, which includes a visitor centre, corporate meeting room and even a free cappuccino machine. Mass-producing farms, even those that have moved on from cages, produce extremely cheap eggs at a heavy cost to the environment and the welfare of the animals laying them. The cost-cutting model is blamed by many for the regular food scares in northern Europe, including the recent enforced destruction of millions of eggs due to contamination by the toxic insecticide fipronil. The organic and free-range varieties, where farmers prioritise the welfare of the chickens, often sell at a higher price \u2013 but again at a cost to the wider environment, feeding the chickens expensive imported corn that could be better used to feed people. \u201cIt makes no sense for us to be competing with animals for food,\u201d Zanders said. \u201cAnd 70% of the carbon footprint in eggs is accounted for by the feed for the chickens.\u201d The 44-year-old, who once ran his father\u2019s low-cost, high-production egg business, with a \u20ac45m annual turnover, believes he has hit the sweet spot with his new venture, home for the last five weeks to 24,000 chickens, whose eggs recently went on sale in Dutch Lidl stores in packaging made from potato starch. Zanders\u2019s selling point is that his farm has the highest welfare standards \u2013 as endorsed by Dutch animal activist group Animals Awake \u2013 matched with the lowest possible environmental cost. This second point is supported by Wageningen University, which has been examining the farm\u2019s carbon footprint and fine dust emissions. The eggs, meanwhile, are sold at a more affordable price as the farm is not seeking to live up to some of what Zanders believes are the less sensible strictures necessary to describe his product as free-range or organic. Every day at 10am, the shutters between the hens\u2019 sleeping quarters and a covered courtyard at the Kipster farm slowly lift. With a flurry of feathers, thousands of plump white birds venture out into the daylight to climb, hide and bustle among the trees scattered over their play area until the shutters close again at 7.30pm. The hens are not technically free-range, because there are not 10 hectares of open land for them to run around on, as demanded by law. But Zanders says chickens are naturally wood-living creatures, often fearful of open exposed land, and so a smaller outdoor area along with the covered courtyard provides the best setting. \u201cEvery free-range farmer knows that if you have 10 hectares, the chickens will only use nine,\u201d he said. \u201cWe have 6.7 hens per square metre. A free-range farm would typically have nine hens per square metre.\u201d Above the courtyard is an irregular triangle of ceiling, a third of which is clear glass allowing daylight in while the remainder is frosted due to the farm\u2019s 1,078 solar panels that provide enough electricity to keep the building running while selling power back to the grid. Meanwhile, the chickens are fed a diet of broken biscuits, rice cakes and other \u201cresidual flows\u201d (the edible stuff we throw away) collected from bakeries in the area and made into feed. The eggs produced are not organic because the feed is not organic, but the animal is fitting into the food chain rather than competing with humans for corn, Zanders said. By using waste food as feed, the farm is also cutting deeply into its carbon footprint. \u201cBy reducing our carbon footprint, and making energy from the solar panels to be sold on, we believe, from Wageningen University\u2019s initial calculations, that we are laying carbon-neutral eggs,\u201d Zanders said. \u201cIf anything suggests that is not the case as time goes on, we will invest in solar panels elsewhere to make sure we reduce CO2 emissions\u201d. After 70 weeks the hens are slaughtered but not, as is often the case in northern Europe, dumped on the African meat market, which undermines any hopes of poultry farmers there running a profitable business. Instead they will be turned into chicken burgers and nuggets to be sold on the local market. The Kipster farm has also struck an agreement with the chicken-rearing farm that provides the hens. In northern Europe, chicken farmers breeding for egg-laying farms tend to gas the male chicks when they hatch \u2013 350 million a year across the continent. These are then used for feed in zoos or all to often are thrown away. \u201cOurs will be reared for 17 weeks before they are slaughtered, and then we will make rooster burgers,\u201d Zanders said. \u201cPeople may have an issue with the treatment of the roosters, but at least we are trying to find a solution.\u201d"
"14||UK firms want a Brexit transition deal by MarchMost British firms will delay investment and cut recruitment plans unless a Brexit transition deal is agreed early next year, company bosses have warned. The stark claim from Britain\u2019s biggest business group comes amid the strongest signs yet that the corporate world has lost patience with cabinet infighting and lack of progress in Brexit talks. Paul Drechsler, president of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI), said there was \u201cexasperation\u201d at the lack of progress, and criticised the fact that Theresa May had still not held a full cabinet discussion on the final Brexit deal. \u201cI couldn\u2019t believe that any team of people would take on a mission of this scale without considering it in detail in terms of the pros, cons, costs and benefits \u2013 nobody could embark on the biggest deal of their life without considering it in the boardroom,\u201d he said. \u201cEvery boardroom in the UK has diversity of opinion around the table. In every boardroom, we discuss our different opinions and develop an agreed set of values and come to an agreement on where we are going to go. No board member says, \u2018I\u2019m going to brief people on my own point of view, which is different.\u2019 It doesn\u2019t happen in the world of business, it cannot happen in our parliament any longer. We need a united parliament, government and cabinet. I don\u2019t mean momentarily \u2013 I mean day in, day out, until the deal is done.\u201d Drechsler said there should be no \u201cred lines\u201d in the talks about the final deal, suggesting the CBI wanted to leave open the issue of single market membership. He said that any free trade deal struck with Europe would have to cover the services sector, which makes up the bulk of the UK\u2019s economy. It means the CBI wants the agreement to go way beyond the EU\u2019s trade deal with Canada, often cited as a possible model but which does not cover services. \u201cIf we were a Germany with 30% or 40% of the economy as goods, then perfect \u2013 but we\u2019re not,\u201d he said. \u201cSo a goods deal for the UK is welcome for those who trade in goods, but for the rest of the economy it does nothing.\u201d His intervention, before his speech to the CBI\u2019s annual conference on Monday, heaps pressure on May to secure agreement for a two-year \u201cstandstill\u201d transition deal at a crucial Brussels summit in December. It comes as Tory Brexiters who favour walking away from talks become more vocal. Drechsler said a survey of CBI members showed 60% would roll out their contingency plans for crashing out of the EU by the end of March, unless a transition deal was secured soon. He warned that smaller firms might not be able to plan for the worst. ON OTHER PAGES"
"12||In Spain, democracy and law are being reduced to hollow shellsEight former ministers of the ousted Catalonian government are in prison, awaiting charges of sedition and rebellion. A European arrest warrant has been issued for the apprehension of former Catalan president, Carles Puigdemont, now holed up in Brussels. For supporters of the government, such strong-arm tactics in response to Catalonia\u2019s declaration of independence is a necessary defence of the rule of law. For supporters of Catalan independence, it is a mortal attack on democracy. In reality, both sides have reduced democracy and law to hollow shells. The actions of the Catalan government were contrary to the provisions of the Spanish constitution but the issue cannot be reduced to legal formalism. What is being played out in Catalonia is a confrontation over political legitimacy. Whatever the legal issues, it can only be resolved at a political level. The problem with the actions of the Catalan government is that they were undemocratic. Polls have consistently shown that only a minority of Catalans support independence; over the past three years, support has remained at 40-45%. A slightly higher percentage, but still a minority, oppose independence. Catalonia is split down the middle. The action of the Catalan government in declaring independence was, at best, foolish. Its reason \u2013 that 90% of voters backed independence in last month\u2019s referendum \u2013 ignores that fact that only 43% had been able to, or willing to, take part. The parliamentary vote on independence was pushed through in a late-night session that most of the opposition boycotted. Independence was less about respecting democracy than about political machinations. Puigdemont, having declared independence, promptly fled to Brussels. Rather than face up to the consequences of his actions or engage in a political debate inside Spain, he simply vacated the arena. He seemed more interested in making high-stakes gestures than in furthering democracy. But if the actions of the Catalan government are hardly those of politicians respecting democracy, those of the Madrid government are equally unpalatable. From police brutality in response to the referendum, to the imprisoning of democratically elected politicians, Madrid has sought to address the political issues raised by the question of Catalan independence through force and coercion. While only a minority of Catalans support independence, there is mounting disaffection with rule from Madrid. The numbers backing secession have nearly doubled since 2010. Under a third want to maintain the status quo. It is not just in Catalonia that there exists such disaffection with central government. Harsh austerity policies, soaring unemployment and a sense of mainstream institutions deaf to people\u2019s needs have stoked popular grievances throughout Spain. The irony is that Catalonia is its richest region and anger often takes the form of resentment at \u201cbailing out\u201d the rest of Spain. Whatever the roots of the anger, it needs to be addressed, which Madrid has failed to do. In imprisoning politicians, Madrid is effectively criminalising political dissent. The \u201crule of law\u201d has become a cloak for a refusal to engage in a political debate in socially fragmented Spain. Democracy and the rule of law depend upon political legitimacy. That is what neither side possesses."
"22||Examination of Chopin\u2019s pickled heart solves riddle of his early deathThe great Polish composer and pianist Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Chopin had a morbid fear of premature burial. \u201cThe earth is suffocating,\u201d he told one of his sisters as he lay on his death bed in 1849. \u201cSwear to make them cut me open, so that I won\u2019t be buried alive.\u201d An autopsy was duly performed to try to solve the mysterious cause of the 39-year-old\u2019s death. His heart was removed and later stored in a jar of cognac, then interred in a church pillar in Poland. Now scientists have taken advantage of Chopin\u2019s morbid desire. Granted a rare opportunity to examine his pickled heart, they have concluded the musician was a victim of pericarditis, a rare complication of chronic tuberculosis. The diagnosis, published in the American Journal of Medicine last week, is the latest and most convincing foray into the long-running dispute over the likely cause of Chopin\u2019s slow decline and death in his 30s. Other suggested causes of his debilitation and death have included the inherited disease cystic fibrosis; alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency, a relatively rare genetic ailment that leaves individuals prone to lung infections; and mitral stenosis, a narrowing of the heart valves. But when the researchers examined the jar containing Chopin\u2019s heart \u2013 kept in the crypt of the Holy Cross church in Warsaw \u2013 they noted the heart was covered with a fine coating of white fibrous materials. In addition, small lesions were visible, the telltale symptoms of serious complications of tuberculosis, concluded the team. \u201cWe didn\u2019t open the jar,\u201d team leader Professor Michael Witt of the Polish Academy of Sciences told the Observer. \u201cBut from the state of the heart we can say, with high probability, that Chopin suffered from tuberculosis while the complication pericarditis was probably the immediate cause of his death.\u201d The new study is the latest chapter in the strange story of Chopin\u2019s heart. The composer died in October 1849 in Paris and the rest of his remains lie in the city\u2019s P\u00e8re Lachaise cemetery, also the last resting place of Marcel Proust, Oscar Wilde and Jim Morrison. However, his status as a Polish national hero ensured his heart became embroiled in controversy. Shortly after he died his sister Ludwika smuggled his heart into his homeland past guards from Russia (which then ruled Poland) and it was sealed inside the Holy Cross church. During the Warsaw uprising in 1944, the heart was given to a high-ranking SS officer who professed to be a Chopin admirer. It was then kept in the local German high command headquarters before being returned to the church at the end of the second world war. The examination of the heart by Witt and colleagues was the first since 1945. \u201cWe found it is still perfectly sealed in the jar,\u201d said Witt. \u201cSome people still want to open it in order to take tissue samples to do DNA tests to support their ideas that Chopin had some kind of genetic condition. That would be absolutely wrong. It could destroy the heart and in any case I am quite sure we now know what killed Chopin.\u201d"
"10||Desperate plight of millions not on living wage revealed in reportMore than a third of people who earn less than the \u201creal living wage\u201d have reported regularly skipping meals to save money, according to a report. The real living wage (RLW), which is promoted by the Living Wage Foundation and is voluntarily paid by more than 3,500 UK employers, is based on what people need to live a decent and healthy lifestyle as determined by a panel of experts. It is currently \u00a38.45 across the UK and \u00a39.75 in London. It differs from the government\u2019s national living wage, which is \u00a37.50 an hour for those 25 or older. A poll carried out for the Living Wage Foundation also found that more than a third of people earning less than this had topped up their monthly income with a credit card or loan in the last year, while more than one in five reported using a payday loan to cover essentials. More than half \u2013 55% \u2013 had declined a social invitation due to lack of money, and just over half had borrowed money from a friend or relative. \u201cThis is the sad reality of life for people who are in working poverty in the UK,\u201d said Katherine Chapman, director at Living Wage Foundation. \u201cWe\u2019ve seen the increasing use of food banks and other worrying trends. That\u2019s why it\u2019s more important than ever that employers are showing leadership and standing up and making a public commitment to paying the living wage.\u201d The foundation, which will announce the new hourly living wage rate on Monday, said that with the cost of living rising at its fastest pace in four years, the need for a living wage has become paramount. A third of FTSE 100 companies as well as Google, Everton, Liverpool and Chelsea football clubs pay the RLW, and more than 150,000 employees have received a pay rise as a result of the campaign. More than \u00a3600m has been paid to workers since it began in earnest in 2011. \u201cIn the last couple of years we\u2019ve seen certain sectors, like retail, really grow,\u201d Chapman said. \u201cIkea signing up a couple of years ago was huge. The movement has grown from strength to strength. In the past year alone we\u2019ve accredited more than a thousand employers.\u201d However, a separate poll for consultancy giant KPMG before this week\u2019s living wage week found that more than one in five people in the UK are still earning below the RLW. While the number has dropped by 100,000 to around 5.5 million since last year, the first reduction in five years, it means a million more people earning below the RLW than in 2012. Part-time workers are particularly vulnerable to low pay. Around 3.1 million part-time employees earn less than the RLW compared with 2.4 million full-time workers, according to KPMG. The KPMG research found that a deep gender divide continues to operate. One in four \u2013 26% \u2013 of women earn less than the RLW, compared with 16% of men. Almost three-fifths of those earning below the RLW said they had experienced a sharp increase in the cost of living. There is also acute regional variation. Some 26% of workers in Northern Ireland earn below the RLW, the highest proportion in the UK, and a quarter of workers in the East Midlands, Yorkshire and Humber, Wales and the West Midlands are also earning below the threshold. Andy Bagnall, director at KPMG UK, said that, historically, some businesses believed that paying the real living wage would hit them financially. But he suggested there was evidence to the contrary. \u201cIn the past, many businesses were worried that increased wages would hit their bottom line, but there is ample evidence to suggest otherwise. \u201cBy paying the real living wage since 2006, KPMG has seen improved staff morale, a rise in service standards, improved retention of staff and increased productivity. More importantly, it has been an enabler for social mobility.\u201d"
"12||Raining kiwis, Harry Styles? Best watch your song titlesPity poor Harry Styles. His song Kiwi has inspired fans to pelt him with kiwi fruit at concerts. At a London concert, he trod on one, skidding into the splits, in what could have resulted in a terrible bruising of his own kiwis. A Manchester Asda promptly banned under-25s from buying kiwis in a deadpan attempt to \u201cavoid slippery situations\u201d at Styles\u2019s forthcoming gig in the city. Did Styles (and One Direction, the boy band that he was in) come third on The X Factor for this? Not to rub it in, but Styles made a rookie celebrity error. As a teen heartthrob, he should have known that, if you mention anything, in a song, or even an interview, you\u2019re going to end up being bombarded with it. According to a rumour I just made up, Matt and Luke Goss, of Bros fame, are at present surviving solely by eating their way through a mountain of out-of-date Wagon Wheels accumulated after casually mentioning that they liked them back in 1988. Clearly, the trick is to mention high value items that you can flog later on eBay. In this spirit, I confidently predict that Styles\u2019s next songs will be called \u201ciPhone X\u201d and \u201cPorsche\u201d."
"20||SingleMuslim.com: how the Yorkshire dating site transformed Muslim romanceThe business books tell you to follow your heart. It is 17 years since Adeem Younis took that advice and set up SingleMuslim.com. He was 20 and a design student at Wakefield College in Yorkshire with a passion for IT. Besides a desire to be his own boss, there was a more urgentimperative. \u201cQuite literally I would go home and there would be a big photo of my first cousin in Pakistan on the mantelpiece,\u201d he said. \u201cMum would tell me this cousin was great at making chapatis and all that. The idea was we would get married.\u201d Younis\u2019s grandfather had settled in Yorkshire after he had fought for the British army in the second world war and his daughter had an arranged marriage to Younis\u2019s father, her first cousin. The assumption was that Younis would do that, too. When he suggested he wanted to follow a different path, his mother, he recalls, asked anxiously, \u201cyou know, if you are not going to marry your cousin, who are you going to marry?\u201d As a respectful young Muslim man in want of a wife, he realised he was not alone in being asked that question. \u201cIt was at a time when a lot of forced arranged marriages were happening and it was causing a huge amount of tension and turmoil,\u201d he says. \u201cI believed we could resolve a lot of these problems by giving people more options.\u201d Younis was working part-time in a pizza place at the bottom of Westgate, where the traditional uphill Wakefield pub crawl begins of a Saturday night. In exchange for a couple of extra shifts he persuaded his boss to give him office space above the restaurant and he set up a rudimentary Muslim marriage website with a friend. Immediately after it went live they got their first registration. The business started to grow slowly through word of mouth, mostly through student societies. During the marches against the invasion of Iraq, Younis turned up shouting, inevitably, \u201cMake love not war\u201d and giving out leaflets about the website to any Muslim he encountered. In the years since, then SingleMuslim.com has grown to be the dominant player in what has become a competitive market. \u201cThe demand is just humungous,\u201d says Malik Khan, the company\u2019s chief operating officer, who believes it is driven by the fact that in western cultures, dating often takes place in pubs and clubs, limiting places that observant Muslims can meet a future partner. The UK site boasts nearly a million UK active users and the company is expanding internationally. (Traffic analysis suggests there are about 1.4m page views per month).Because it is in effect a marriage site rather than a dating site, it also claims a high rate of success. There have been 50,000 SingleMuslim.com weddings, and counting. Half a mile up the road from that pizza restaurant, the company\u2019s headquarters is spread over three floors of a grand Victorian civic building opposite Wakefield town hall. It has a staff of more than 30. \u201cWhen people come here they expect it is going to be three Muslim guys in hats,\u201d Khan says. On Friday afternoon half the staff are out at prayers, the rest are winding down to go to the pub. The rich data that is one result of the company\u2019s website has enabled Younis to establish other ventures. Most notable is the humanitarian charity Penny Appeal, which last year raised nearly \u00a314m, mostly from members of the marriage website, and now operates in disaster relief efforts, from Grenfell Tower to Haiti. In partnership with the entrepreneur and former Dragons\u2019 Den star James Caan, Younis is about to launch a \u00a32m fund that will provide seed capital for tech ventures. In July Younis, at 37, was named Yorkshire and North East young director of the year by the Institute of Directors, for his work at Penny Appeal. Unfortunately the most prominent headlines featuring SingleMuslim.com came last week during the trial of a couple accused of plotting an Islamic State-inspired attack with a homemade bomb. The Old Bailey heard on Tuesday and Wednesday how Munir Mohammed, a British citizen of Sudanese origin, living in Derby, allegedly enlisted the help of Rowaida El-Hassan, a pharmacy graduate of University College London, for her knowledge of chemicals needed to make an explosive. The pair, it was noted in court, and in the papers, had first met on SingleMuslim.com. On the site, Munir Mohammed had described himself as looking for a wife and partner with whom to start a family. El-Hassan referred to having a master\u2019s degree in pharmacy in her profile, and said: \u201cI am looking for a simple, very simple, honest and straightforward man who fears Allah before anything else.\u201d Having made their connection on the website, between 2015 and 2016 the couple were in regular contact on WhatsApp, jurors heard. Khan and Younis have been aware that the case was coming to court for a while. When Mohammed and El-Hassan were first arrested the police asked to see what record of their relationship the company held. \u201cObviously,\u201d Khan says, \u201cwe immediately printed off all of their logins and messages. Their behaviour was quite normal on the site. They exchanged a few lovey-dovey messages and then they swapped WhatsApp addresses and that was that.\u201d The case is, of course, Younis says, \u201cthe last thing we need or want\u201d. They have, they believe, done all they can to prevent any such radicalised liaisons. \u201cYou can\u2019t share videos or external links,\u201d Khan says. If a membership request comes in from an unstable country, Nigeria or Yemen, say, it is automatically blocked for vetting. SingleMuslim.com subscribers pay \u00a330 a month (or \u00a3120 for a year) and much of that money is invested, Khan insists, in making the platform a safe space. \u201cYou can\u2019t even swear on our site. We automate as much as we can, but if there is anything at all doubtful a human will always look at it upstairs.\u201d Any time there is a terrorist attack in Europe \u2013 after the atrocities in London and Manchester this summer for example \u2013 the site will be bombarded by what Khan calls \u201cdrunken profiles\u201d, hate-filled messages targeted at users on the site, as well as more organised cyber-attacks. Most are automatically filtered out; but they respond by adding manpower to the moderating of the site to make sure it stays \u201cclean\u201d. Do they imagine that the security services will now be paying them more attention? \u201cWe have no problem helping the police with any requests,\u201d Khan says. \u201cBut it is only once in a blue moon they are in touch \u2013 in the past there have been a few immigration issues we have been asked to provide information over. And then we share intelligence in terms of spammers and scammers \u2026\u201d When Younis originally set up his website, the problems came from fundamentalists. \u201cBack in the day we used to have death threats,\u201d he says. \u201cAll from anonymous keyboard warriors. They would be like \u2018it is haram [forbidden] to display photographs of women\u2019. People would have seen their sister on there.\u201d Younis was unfazed. Now, he says, he doesn\u2019t hear of anyone who is against what they are doing, mainly because, he believes, \u201ceveryone knows someone the site has helped\u201d. Not long after he founded the site, a \u201ccommunity auntie\u201d called him round to her house for a meeting. He sat on her sofa and she \u201cblasted him\u201d about the website. Six months later, Younis says, the same auntie invited him back, this time he was offered tea and biscuits: \u201c\u2018Younis, you\u2019ve got that machine, there is a brother in the community perhaps you can help?\u2019 Sure enough,\u201d he says, \u201csix months later we had this guy married.\u201d You don\u2019t have to spend very long on SingleMuslim.com to realise it is not Tinder. The options in creating a profile on the site require users to select their level of piety (Very religious/Somewhat religious/Prefer not to say) their sect (Shia/Sunni/Just Muslim) and appearance preferences (Hijab? Beard?). \u201cWhat we are not is this kind of swipe right, one-night stand kind of service,\u201d Younis says. \u201cPeople call it \u2018halal dating\u2019 and that\u2019s fine. Halal means being wholesome and right in your faith.\u201d About 10% of members join as a family. In those cases, traditionally the mums or the grannies use the site to do the matchmaking, Khan explains. What the company mostly promotes, though, is the opportunity to broaden that search as far as possible. The case studies on the site highlight couples who have crossed national and racial barriers to marry. \u201cWe are not SingleShia.com or SinglePakistanimuslim.com,\u201d Younis suggests. There is an empowering impulse in this \u2013 and in the insistence that photographs must be full face. \u201cFemales who are fully covered don\u2019t get in our galleries,\u201d Khan says. \u201cThere is no point in having an image where you just see the eyes.\u201d In their boardroom, along with a red telephone box (\u201cwe are a very British company\u201d) there is a wall of silk flowers on which some of the happy couples are framed. One photograph that is not on that wall is Younis\u2019s own \u2013 though it could be. His business idea did eventually provide the answer to the mother\u2019s question \u2013 \u201cIf not your cousin, then who are you going to marry?\u201d \u2013 with which it began. One morning in 2005 after a bit of trial and error he arrived in the office to announce. \u201cGuys I\u2019ve met the one!\u201d His colleagues looked up from their keyboards, in mock alarm. \u201cRight, boss. Shall we close the website now?\u201d Far from being the end of the business his marriage, Younis argues, has inspired what has followed. \u201cMy wife\u2019s a GP, she grew up in the Midlands, different community. Ordinarily we would never have got together.\u201d They now have four kids, a daily reminder of the magic of his algorithm. His plan is to have that magic spread: \u201cWakefield and then the world.\u201d They have a growing membership in the US and Canada, the next push is into India and Pakistan. \u201cRemember a Muslim wedding costs on average \u00a340,000,\u201d Younis says. \u201cMultiply that by 50,000 and you see what effect we can have on an economy.\u201d"
"16||Hugh Grant: reluctant he may be but talented he certainly isThere is no shortage of joyous moments during Paddington 2, the sequel to the 2014 surprise hit, and many of them revolve around a lip-smacking performance by Hugh Grant. He plays the villainous Phoenix Buchanan, a washed-up, narcissistic actor reduced to making dog food commercials, who spots a chance to finance his one-man show by stealing an antique book. The role gives the 57-year-old Grant a chance to don a variety of absurd disguises (among them a homeless man, a nun and a bishop) in his nefarious pursuit of riches. Grant appears to be enjoying himself enormously, which has not always been the case in recent times, on screen or off. The actor is showing every sign of undergoing a renaissance. Last year, he gave one of his most nuanced performances, radiating warmth as the devoted husband of the world\u2019s worst singer (played by Meryl Streep) in Florence Foster Jenkins. Protecting his wife from criticisms that littered her path like broken paving stones, he suggested not merely uxoriousness but tactical skill; he could turn an insult into a compliment or a damning notice into a rave, simply by inclining his head this way or that. No wonder Grant is putting himself back in the hands of that film\u2019s director, Stephen Frears, for the three-part BBC drama A Very English Scandal, written by Russell T Davies. He will play the MP Jeremy Thorpe, with Ben Whishaw as Norman Scott, the lover he tried to have murdered. For an actor who chooses not to work often (Grant has been seen in only seven films in the past decade), it is important to work well; an obvious lesson, perhaps, but one which Grant has not always appeared to heed. \u201cI\u2019ve always thought that he was clever,\u201d said Frears last year. \u201cI don\u2019t know why he makes the films that he makes \u2013 not that I\u2019ve seen them.\u201d His appearance in Paddington 2 has a whiff of self-mockery about it. Seeing him as a luvvie consumed with hate, seething at a world whose applause he simultaneously craves, it\u2019s tempting to recall the character sketch given of him by Drew Barrymore, his co-star in the expertly frothy 2007 romantic comedy Music &amp; Lyrics. \u201cHe is like a complete cynic, self-tortured and dark,\u201d she observed. \u201cYou\u2019d go into his trailer and he\u2019d be sitting there on the couch, chopping salad alone, an angry Englishman.\u201d In one of the quieter moments in Paddington 2, the camera pans around Phoenix\u2019s luxurious living room and catches sight of his display of framed photographs of himself. Right at the front is a black-and-white portrait of the old Hugh Grant or, rather, the young one: the early 1990s incarnation with which audiences first fell in love, with his melted, faintly pleading eyes and his lips poised in preparation for an apology or a self-deprecating remark. And that hair, all that hair, simultaneously sculpted and floppy; meticulously styled to suggest the appearance of spontaneity. If ever a hairstyle embodied a man, it was this. He doesn\u2019t look carefree in that photograph exactly (he was never that) but nor does he yet seem disappointed with life. It must have been taken just after Four Weddings had converted a career marked by the ludicrous (Ken Russell\u2019s The Lair of the White Worm, Roman Polanski\u2019s laughable Bitter Moon) into one in which he seemed to have some chance of following in the footsteps of Cary Grant. This turned out to be slightly wide of the mark. Unlike his half-namesake, Hugh Grant\u2019s brand of levity and charm was not easily transferable to other contexts. You would have to be exceptionally generous, or a member of Grant\u2019s immediate family, to regard the mediocre mob comedy Mickey Blue Eyes or the thriller Extreme Measures, both produced by his then girlfriend, Elizabeth Hurley, as any kind of modern-day counterparts to Charade and North By Northwest. There was always the sense that Grant wanted more than the narrow range of options dictated by celebrity. He has been at his most interesting when leaning toward his caddish side, exploiting the cruelty and sense of entitlement that are latent in his physical features: he can play it cartoonishly, as in Woody Allen\u2019s Small Time Crooks, or with poignancy, as in About a Boy, but it is when toying with these dislikable qualities that he seems happiest. He first hinted excitingly at the extent of his range 20 years ago as a bitchy theatre director in An Awfully Big Adventure, opposite Alan Rickman as the company\u2019s star actor. It was one of the early signs that Grant was chafing against the limitations of his Four Weddings image and what the public might expect of him. (Being caught with a prostitute in his car on Sunset Boulevard in 1995, just as he was launching his charm offensive on the US public with the comedy Nine Months, was another.) And though he pushed on through several more confections by his Four Weddings writer, Richard Curtis, including Notting Hill and Love Actually, it was possible to see the joy and mischief leaking away. His was not merely that standard discomfort at being a public figure (though he has plenty of that too) but dissatisfaction at a deeper level. So intense was it, in fact, that he was moved to announce his retirement in 2004. \u201cThere\u2019s not much excitement any more. I just lost interest, to tell the truth. I don\u2019t return my agent\u2019s calls. I don\u2019t read scripts. I was never a very committed actor. Now I can just stop. This is the last film I will ever make.\u201d In fairness, he was talking about the first Bridget Jones sequel, The Edge of Reason, a film so poor it could cause the most committed performer to throw in the towel. However, he carried on making movies. There may not have been many of them but the quality control was low enough (Did You Hear About the Morgans?, The Man From UNCLE) to make his admirers wish he wouldn\u2019t bother. If the spark seemed to have gone out of his acting, that may be because he had found one of his best roles off screen, as one of the figureheads of the Hacked Off movement for press regulation. Grant, along with many other celebrities whose voicemails had been hacked, had reason enough to bring legal action but it was the discovery that employees of News International had hacked into the messages of the murdered teenager Milly Dowler that gave the movement serious momentum. Then, in late 2010, he had an accidental encounter with a former paparazzo, Paul McMullan, one of the men who had first blown the whistle on phone hacking. McMullan happened to be driving past in the Kent countryside when he saw Grant and his broken-down Ferrari at the side of the road; he offered the actor a lift, after first taking his photograph. McMullan sold his account of the meeting to the Mail on Sunday for \u00a33,000; Grant returned the favour by setting up another conversation with him, which he recorded secretly and then wrote up for the New Statesman, in which McMullan made allegations of uncomfortably close links between the press, police and politicians. Out of nowhere, this actor, who had seemed languid, even dissolute, found himself riding the crest of a story, motivated like never before. His outspokenness has given his energies a new outlet and has guaranteed him, if nothing else, a lifelong enmity from sections of Britain\u2019s press. Unsurprisingly, some papers have responded to his criticisms of their practices with concentrated attacks on everything from his personal life (he has four children by three women) and his career (when he received his BFI fellowship in 2016, the Mail ran a mocking list of his flops and failure) to the fact that he has had the temerity to age: a spread of unflattering long-lens snaps of him on holiday was headlined \u201cFour bellies and a turkey neck\u201d. What this adds up to is not only one of the most curious episodes in Grant\u2019s life but something more fascinating than any of the films he had been seen in throughout the preceding decade. And now that sense of risk-taking seems to be spilling back into his work. \u201cI never felt Hugh was entirely comfortable in an actor\u2019s skin,\u201d said Sharon Maguire, who directed him in Bridget Jones\u2019s Diary. \u201cActing for him wasn\u2019t a religion. I don\u2019t even think he thinks of it as a proper job. But that doesn\u2019t mean he doesn\u2019t want to be perfect at it.\u201d For the first time in his career, that may be a possibility. THE GRANT FILES Born Hugh John Mungo Grant in Hammersmith, London, on 9 September 1960 to Fynvola, a teacher, and James, manager of a carpet firm. Best of times A run of films written by Richard Curtis, notably Four Weddings and a Funeral (1994) and Notting Hill (1999), not only made Grant a star but cemented his persona as the ultimate diffident but charming Englishman. In recent years, he has emerged as one of the figureheads of Hacked Off. Worst of times Arrested in Los Angeles for \u201cindecent conduct\u201d with Divine Brown, a prostitute, to which he pleaded \u201cno contest\u201d. Also arrested for assault in 2007 against a paparazzo, for which charges were later dropped. What he says \u201cThe only reason that I\u2019ve had a career is because I was good at recognising and prioritising what was entertaining. A lot of actors look at scripts and think, how will this stretch me as an actor? But I always thought, do I want to turn the page, is this going to make people laugh?\u201d What they say \u201cHe can insult you and you\u2019re laughing. Then you go, wait a minute. He insulted me.\u201d Drew Barrymore. This article was amended on 10 November 2017 to remove an inaccurate reference to journalists deleting messages on Milly Dowler\u2019s phone. While the News of the World did listen to the schoolgirl\u2019s voicemail, police said there was no evidence that it deleted any messages."
"12||Keep cameras out of lavatoriesA West Midlands secondary school, Summerhill, is under fire for installing CCTV in the area of pupils\u2019 lavatories. Summerhill says that the cameras are not directed anywhere near urinals or cubicles. However, parents say that children are refusing to use the lavatories, to the point of almost wetting themselves, and are even ringing their parents to be taken home to use the loos at home. One doesn\u2019t have to be Sigmund Freud to ponder the dangers of making children inhibited about using the lavatory. You can see where Summerhill is coming from \u2013 school loos are hotbeds of activity, including bullying. Indeed, the CCTV was only installed because of problems with student behaviour. However, it\u2019s been pointed out that, for instance, a prefect, or two, could be put on duty in the vicinity. Nor does recording pupils coming and going require cameras inside actual lavatories. This isn\u2019t about children being especially sensitive \u2013 most people prefer public lavatories of any kind to be as private as possible. Some might recall the mass incredulity when communal loos were featured on the television show, Ally McBeal. Billed as the \u201cfuture of the workplace toilet\u201d, the mixed sex loo never caught on \u2013 it transpired that most didn\u2019t agree that it was the zenith of corporate team spirit for men and women to grimly mingle at the gummed-up liquid soap dispenser. Well, who\u2019d have guessed it? In the same way, it\u2019s somewhat unsurprising that kids don\u2019t like the idea of cameras in their lavatories. Give them a break. Quite apart from anything else, school is a big, noisy, active, uber-communal space. The lavatories are probably one of the few zones of near-privacy a pupil has left, and should remain sacrosanct."
